cc: "my chest was hurting a few days ago"  HPI: 55 year old female with a history of hypertension presents after a 5-10 episode of midsternal chest pain while lifting 10 lb objects. She notes that 3 days ago, she was carrying 5 lbs in each arm when she experienced midsternal chest pain. This pain lasted 5-10 minutes and resolved when she put the weights down and sat in her car. She describes the pain as a deep ache and heavy pressure that was 7/10. She did not note any exacerbating factors. She has not had the pain since then, but does note that she has had substernal "twinges" in the past and some lower sternal pressure after eating too much. She notes that she felt faint during this episode and the pain "took her breath away." She denies any other pain (jaw or shoulder), nausea, dizziness, sweating or palpitations during the episode. She is concerned that she had a heart attack.  PMH - HTN PSH - none Meds - chlorthalidone 25mg, lisinopril 10mg  Allergies: none Family hx - father had CAD, CABG and died of an MI at 40 years old, no other family medical history including CVA or PAD Social - works at Capital One in branding, drinks 1-3 beers on weekends, smokes 1 ppd, no recreational drug use; does not exercise  Objective: -VS: T 98F, HR 85, RR 14, BP 150/92 -PE: well groomed and well nourished female in no acute distress CV: RRR, no murmur/rub/gallop, 2+ radial and posterior tibialis pulses bilaterally R: nonlabored respirations, lungs CTAB MSK: no chest wall tenderness, mild concavity to sternum  Assessment:  55 yo female with a history of hypertension and significant family history of heart disease presents 3 days after a 5-10 minute episode of aching substernal chest pain with associated lightheadedness and SOB while carrying a heavy weight. Vital signs remarkable for hypertension and physical exam is normal. Most likely diagnosis is costochondritis given short duration of pain and provocation by heavy lifting. Differential includes stable angina, pectoralis muscle strain, precordial catch syndrome.   Plan: -Obtain EKG to rule out ischemia and to reassure patient -If EKG normal, reassure patient that this is likely musculoskeletal and there is low risk that this was an MI -Advise to f/u with PCP for BP management, may need to increase lisinopril to 20mg -Refer to PT if similar pain recurs and treat with OTC Tylenol -Counsel on smoking cessation especially given patient's concern for heart disease
