Ms. Cage is a 55 year old female who presents today due to chest pain that occurred 3 days ago. She reports she was walking out to her car carrying groceries when she experienced a deep aching substernal chest pain and chest heaviness. The pain lasts 5-10 minutes and resolved with rest. She also reports feeling short of breath and faint at that time. She describes 2-3 other episodes of chest pain related to exertion over the past 4 months but describes these episodes as a short "twinge" of pain that resolved immediately. Additionally reports episodes of upper abdominal pain and feeling of fullness after meals.   Medications: Chlorthalidone 25 mg, Lisinopril 10 mg Allergies: None PHMx: Hypertension Surgeries: None Hospitalizations: None Fam Hx:  Father- CAD, Died at age 40 from an MI Mother- Deceased at age 60 from a pulmonary embolism, hypertension Social Hx: Tobacco: 1 ppd for 30 years Alcohol: 2-3 glasses of wine a night on weekends Denies recreational drug use  Objective: BP 150/92 P 85 RR 14 T98 Exam: Constitutional: pleasant, in no acute distress Lungs: Clear to auscultation bilaterally Chest: No ecchymosis, erythema, or lesions on exterior chest wall. No tenderness to palpation of chest wall. Regular rate and rhythm. S1 and S2 without murmurs, rubs, or gallops. PMI brisk in the left 5th intercostal space. Abdomen: Soft, nondistended, no tenderness to palpation in all 4 quadrants Extremities: No pedal edema bilaterally  Assessment: Mrs. Cage is a 55 year old female with hypertension and tobacco use who presents today due to recurrent episodes of chest pain and shortness of breath on exertion that resolve with rest. She has a strong family history of cardiac problems with her father passing away from an MI at age 40. Exam is notable for hypertension and unremarkable cardiac exam. Differential diagnosis includes coronary artery disease, angina, unstable angina, acute MI, and GERD.  Plan: - EKG - Lipid panel, CBC, CMP, Cr  - Exercise stress test - Increase dose of Lisinopril from 10 mg to 20 mg - Follow-up after stress test complete - Go the ER/ call 911 for episodes of chest pain that do not resolve after 15 minutes
