Gerry Cage is a 47 year old male with a history of hypertension who presents following one episode of 7/10 "aching" substernal chest pain that lasted for 5-10 minutes on Sunday following significant exertion. Patient reports he was carrying heavy groceries to his car when he suddenly felt a "deep aching" substernal chest pain without radiation or associated nausea, vomiting, or diaphoresis. Upon feeling the pain, he sat in his car for 5-10 minutes, and the pain resolved. Did not take any medications to resolve the pain. States he has felt similar substernal pain with exertion over the past few months, but no episodes this severe. Also reports that for the past few months he feels a substernal pressure following meals. Has home blood pressure cuff at home, his readings are usually in the 130s/80s.   Medical History: hypertension Surgical History: none Social History: tobacco usage (21 pack-years), 4-6 alcoholic drinks per week, no illicit drug usage, occupation is in IT at Capital One Medications: chlorthalidone 25 mg orally once daily for hypertension, lisinopril 10 mg orally once daily for hypertension   Vitals: T 98, HR 85, RR 14, BP 150/92 Exam:  - Cardio: regular rate, regular rhythm. No murmurs, rubs, or gallops. S1 ans S2 present. Chest wall nontender to palpation. - Pulmonary: lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally in all fields. No wheezing, rhonchi, stridor.   Assessment and Plan: Mr. Cage is a 47 year old male with a history of hypertension, tobacco usage, and alcohol usage who presents following one episode of "aching" substernal chest pain with exertion that resolved after 5-10 minutes of rest.  #Stable Angina Differential includes: stable angina, unstable angina, NSTEMI, STEMI, GERD, chostochondritis.  Stable angina most likely given chest pain following exertion with return to baseline. Will perform CMP, lipid panel today in clinic. Will schedule for stress echo and EKG to further assess cardiac function. Consider a cardiac catheter if needed for further evaluation of coronary vessels.   #GERD Recommend PPI usage for symptom relief after meals.   Katherine Klein, M3
