Gerry cage is a 47 year old male with pmhx of HTN and tobacco use for 20 years, 1 PPD and family history significant for father passing away from MI at age 40 who presents with chest pain. 3 days ago, he was carrying groceries when he noticed a deep, achy pain that was 7/10 that resolved with 5-10 minutes of rest. Over the past 4 months, he has noticed that running, taking the stairs has caused minor chest pain that resolved with rest. Denies nausea, vomiting, shortness of breath, diaphoresis, radiation to L side.  meds chlortahlidone and lisonipril   Objective vitals T 98 BP 150/92 RR 14 P 85 physical exam general - in no acute distress, alert, conversant, sitting in gown, normal body habitus, no odors, well groomed cardio- normal s1 and s2, regular rate, normal rhythm, no murmurs, rubs, gallops, 2+ radial pulses extremities-no lower extremity edema bilaterally pulm-clear to auscultation bilaterally, no increased work of breathing, no accessory muscle use, no crackles gi-normoactive bowel sounds, nontender to palpation bilaterally  47 yo M with pmhx of HTN, current smoker (1 ppd for 20 years) and family hx significant for father passing away due to MI at age 40 who presents with concerns about chest pain that was provoked 3 days by carrying heavy groceries and improved after 5-10 minutes of rest. Pt described pain as a deep, heavy ache; denied SOB, n/v, diaphoresis. Physical exam significant for no tenderness to palpation, normal s1 and s2, normal rate and regular rhythm, lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally.   Differential considerations of is stable vs unstable vs vasospastic angina vs GERD vs pulmonary embolism.  Plan: 1. chest pain -obtain EKG -consider stress test if no MI  -CBC, BMP, lipids, troponins  2. smoking: patient is amenable to quitting smoking but states "lots has to happen before i can consider" -counseled patient on smoking cessation benefits, will follow up at next visit and assess if patient is ready for beginning smoking cessation -informed pt about pharmacotherapy (patch) and counseling groups  3. Hypertension -increase dose of chlorthalidone -consider CCB if workup reveals vasospastic angina
