Subjective Gerry Cage is a ___ old male with history of hypertension who presents to clinic today for chest pain that has been ongoing for the last 4 months. He has been having substernal chest pain that occurs intermittently while at rest for the last few months. It typically only lasts a second or two. 3 days ago he was at the store  carrying heavy water jugs when the pain started accompanied by lightheadedness and shortness of breath. He said he had to drop his groceries and walk out to his car and rest for 10-15 min before pain subsided. No radiation of pain to jaw/neck/shoulder, no back/epigastric pain, no diaphoresis, no nausea/vomiting. An episode this extreme has never occurred before. He has not previously been worked up for this pain. His father had MI requiring bypass in his 40s. Gerry takes chlorthalidone 25mg daily and lisinopril ;10 mg daily. Usually BP is 130s/80s at home. He sees his PCP regularly and said there has never been a concern about his bloodwork   Objective  VS  Temp 98 P 85 RR 14 BP 150/92  Physical Exam  CV: normal rate, regular rhythm. no murmurs rubs or gallops. peripheral pulses 2+. no LE edema. no tenderness to palpation  Lungs: CTAB Abd: No epigastric tenderness  Assessment  Gerry Gage is a middle aged male with history HTN and family history of premature cardiac disease who presents today for chest pain x4 months that now occurs with exertion and is accompanied by lightheadedness and shortness of breath. VS concerning for elevated BP. PE unremarkable. Leading differential is unstable angina. Less likely is angina vs. afib vs. costochondritis   Plan  Bloodwork today - Lipids, BMP to assess kidney function, A1c Increase BP medication from lisinopril 10mg to 20mg for better BP control ECG today  Treadmill vs. nuclear stress test as soon as scheduling allows Nitroglycerin tab prescribed Precautions: if pain returns again while exerting self, take a nitroglycerin and either call EMS or come to ED asap for unstable angina workup to assess for potential need for PCI
