CC: “chest pains” HPI: 45 y/o F presenting with cc of lower back pain   - Over the past four months, has had a few instances (3-4) of feeling strange pressure like sensation in the center of her chest - Worst was 3 days ago, when the pressure was more severe than prior and was associated with feeling faint, taking her breath away - Denies diaphoresis, radiation down the arms; denies sharp pain; denies n/v - Says that sitting and resting for 5-10 minutes resolved the sensation; didn’t last more than 2-3 minutes max  - Has been taking her Lisinopril 10 mg and Chlorthalidone 25 mg daily, has “controlled her blood pressure” well over the last few years  - Doesn’t take BP at home, gets it taken at work but she isn’t sure what the readings are. Told that they’re “good” by the nurses  PMHx/Surgical - HTN - No surgeries Family Hx Mom: CAD, diabetes, died at 60 of PE Dad: bypass surgery, heart aattack at 40  Siblings: healthy  Social hx: works at capital one, says she walks infrequently for exercise; diet has not changed over the past few months  Meds: Lisinopril 10 mg and Chlorthalidone 25 mg daily NKDA ROS: denies diaphoresis, denies arm or leg radiating pain, denies recent sickness, denies palpitations, denies nausea or vomiting, denies dizziness, denies persistent chest pain/pressure (not feeling it now); endorses faintness during episode, endorses pressure in chest   Physical exam:  Vitals: HR: 785 BP: 150/92 RR: 14 T: 98F General: awake, alert, sitting upright on exam table in NAD; pleasant, appropriate affect HEENT: normocephalic, atraumatic, exam limited by face shield and mask  CVS: RRR, no murmurs or rubs; adequate peripheral perfusion, no cyanosis; peripheral pulses 2+; PMI mix axillary line between 5th and 6th intercostal space (dime sized, brisk and tapping, normal)  Lungs: CTAB, no wheezes or crackles, no cyanosis, no respiratory distress  MSK: no costochondral tenderness, no tenderness to palpation of the sternum; no peripheral edema  Skin: no lesions or discoloration Neuro: no focal deficits, alert and oriented x 4 A/P: 50 y/o F with HTN on lisonopril 10 and chlorthalidone 25 complaining of several episodes of chest pressure, worsening, last one 3 days ago and was associated with feeling faint. Denies diaphoresis, radiation down the L or R arm, n/v, lasted 2-3 minutes and resolved with rest within 5-10 minutes.  CV exam and pulm exam WNL, no tenderness of the anterior chest wall, no edema or cyanosis of the extremities.  #Chest pressure - DDX: angina vs. arrhythmia o Discussed differential with patient, advised that though symptoms are reassuring that less likely to be emergent at the present time, we need to do more workup to ensure no underlying heart condition on top of HTN. With family history, need to rule out structural heart disease.  o Order EEG. Draw lipid panel, troponins, CBC w/diff, BMP o A1C due to risk factors. Patient may need statin therapy if lipid profile supports.  o Echo if concerns on EEG  o HTN counseling: not well controlled on current regimen. Diet counseling and exercise counseling. Recommend increasing Lisinopril and RTC in 4 weeks, get BP cuff at home and take pressures daily if possible  Kristen Lospinoso, M3 
