S: Gerry Cage is a 55 year old female with a history of HTN, current smoker, and family history of fatal MI in father at age 40 who presents to clinic with chest pain. patient states that 3 days ago she had episode of sternal chest pain, described as pressure, while she was carrying groceries to her car, which resolved with rest. She did not have nausea, vomiting, radiation of pain during episode. She states similar episodes  have occurred 2-3 times over the past 4 months, each time with strenuous activity, but were not as severe. She states she also gets some mid sternal discomfort after large meals which resolves with time.  O:  T 98, P 85, R 14, BP 150/92 General: Well appearing female who appears stated age and is in no acute distress.  Cardiovascular: regular rate and rhythm with no S3, S4, murmurs, rubs, or gallops. No edema of the lower extremities. No peripheral cyanosis. Radial and dorsalis pedis pulses 2+ bilaterally. normal capillary refill.  Lungs: Lungs are clear with no rales, rhonchi, wheezing. Abdomen: normal bowel sounds. No tenderness to palpation.   A/P: Gerry Cage is a 55 year old female with a history of HTN, current smoker, and family history of fatal MI in father at age 40 who presents to clinic 3 days after episode of retrosternal, pressure like chest pain with onset during activity which resolved on its own. History is notable for HTN, current 1 pack per day smoker, and fatal MI in father at age 40. Exam was normal but blood pressure was 150/92 in clinic.   1. Angina: Symptoms of retrosternal chest pain with activity consistent with angina. Patient has several risk factors including HTN, current smoker, history of father with fatal MI. Will order EKG to assess for changes. Recommend cardiac stress test for diagnosis of angina; patient is agreeable, so will schedule now. As blood pressure is elevated in clinic will continue chlorthalidone 25 mg, order BMP and increase lisinopril to 20 mg if kidney function is normal. Will also order lipid panel to assess for other risk factors of angina, and start on statin if cholesterol elevated.  2. Myocardial infarction: Less likely given resolution of symptoms, normal cardiac and lung exam, but still possible given symptoms, risk factors, and family history. Will order EKG to rule out.   3. GERD: Some symptoms of retrosternal pain reported by patient consistent with GERD, but recent symptoms reported as separate by patient. Some underlying GERD likely, but does not account for current symptoms. Will rule out above diagnoses first.   4. Pulmonary embolism: Unlikely given resolution of symptoms, no swelling of lower extremities concerning for DVT, no shortness of breath, and non pleuritic nature of chest pain. Consider additional work up if cardiac stress test is negative. 
