S: Gerry cage is a 48 year old male with PMHx of HTN that is presenting with intermittent chest pains on exertion. 3 days ago he was carrying a heavy load and felt a heavy deep ache in the middle of his chest that persisted for 5-10min even with rest. He also experienced a milder version of this 2-3time sin the past 4 months. He also felt lightheaded and faint during this episode. The pain did not radiate any where. He denies any shortness of breath, and fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and no dizziness. He has also experienced a pressure feeling in his chest for about one year 2-3/week after a eating a big meal. He denies any feelings of heartburn or GERD. He does not choke, or have problems swallowing.   PMH: HTN on chlorthalidone and lisinopril, per patient usually around 130/80 at home SocHx: 2-3 glasses of wine on the weekends, 1 ppd of cigarettes for 21 years, no drug use Famhx: father had a heart attack in his 40s, had a bypass, mother has HTN, DM and PE  O: VS Temp 98F P 85 R 14 BP 150/92 PE General: Alert, not in acute distress Cardiovascular: regular rhythm and normal rate, S1 and S2, no murmurs, no gallops (S3 or S4), no rubs, JVP at 3cm above sternal angle at 30 degrees, no murmurs on leaning forward on exhalation, noon tender to palpation, 2+ pulses radial, 2+ posterior tibialis, bilateral no lower extremity edema Resp: Clear to ascultation in all lung fields, no abnormal breath sounds   A: Gerry cage is a 48 year old male with PMHx of HTN and family history of early myocardial infarction, presenting with intermittent chest pains on exertion. Physical exam is significant for elevated blood pressure on todays visit clinic, but non significant cardiovascular exam,   P: Most likely this is stable angina due to the presentation of chest pains on exertion, less likely this is acute coronary syndrome or GERD,  - EKG at this visit - Chest x ray to assess for possible cardiomegaly with onset of pressure in chest while eating - Stress testing outpatient to assess ischemic burden - start statins at this visit
