HPI: G.C. is a 46 y.o. M with a PMHx HTN who presents with acute sudden onset of mid-sternal chest pain 2 days ago. Patient states he was carrying heavy groceries when he noted severe, 7/10, deep, achy mid-sternal chest pain. Pain was constant for 5-10 minutes and self-resolved after resting for some time. Associated symptoms included lightheadedness and feeling "as if the wind was taken out of my chest." Chest pain did not radiate into the neck, jaw or arm. Of note, he has had a few episodes of similar chest pain over the past 4 months. Episodes typically occur when he exerts himself, but none of the previous episodes have been as severe or long in duration. He also has a h/o intermittent mid-epigastric pressure that he is unsure if it is acid reflux.  Meds: chlorthalidone 25 mg QD, lisinopril 10 mg QD Allergies: none PMHx: HTN PSHx: none FMHx: Father with MI in 40s requiring bypass surgery. Mother with HTN. SHx: +Cigarette smoker 1 ppd x 20 years. Alcohol 2-3 glasses wine once/week. No illicit drugs. Sedentary lifestyle as IT programmer. Walks dog 0.5 miles twice a day. Diet consists of cafeteria food for breakfast and lunch.  Exam: VS: 150/92, P: 85, RR: 14: T: 98F General: Alert, no acute distress CV: Normal S1 and S2 without physiological splitting. No murmurs rubs or gallops. No peripheral edema. PMI is palpated 2 cm, brisk, tapping, lateral to the left mid-clavicular line. JVD is 2cm above the sternal notch. Lungs: CTAB without wheezing, rhonchi or rales. Good air movement. Abd: soft, non-tender, non-distended  Assessment: G.C. is a 46 y.o. M with multiple CVD RF (HTN, FMHx of MI in father <50 y.o.) who presents with acute onset of midsternal chest pain upon exertion in the setting of intermittent chest pain for the past 4 months. Most likely differential diagnosis is stable anginal pain as chest pain occurs with exertion and not at rest. Other differentials include heartburn and musculoskeletal pain.  Plan: 1. EKG to check for arrhythmias 2. Need better BP control - recommend increasing lisinopril dosage and education on low salt diet and reduced stress 3. Referral to cardiology for exercise stress test 
