Subjective  CC chest pain    HPI Ms. Gerry Cage is a 55-year old female with chest pain that lasted 5-10 minutes 3 days ago. She describes it as a heavy pressure and deep, constant ache that was located in her sternum. It occurred when she was lifting heavy groceries. She endorses feeling “twinges” in her chest a few times that last 3-5 minutes that occurred with running and climbing stairs. It is associated with faintness and SOB. Denies changes in heart rate and pain radiating down the left arm. Denies f/c/n/v. She took her blood pressure medications today.   PMH HTN  PSH None   FH mother – pulmonary aneurysm, diabetes, and HTN father – MI in his 40s, CAD, and bypass   SH Tobacco: smokes 1 pack per day  Alcohol: 2-3 beers twice per week Drugs: none   Meds Lisinopril 10mg  by mouth once per day Chlorthalidone by mouth once per day   Allergies none Objective BP 150/92 Pulse 85 Resp 14 Temp 98F  PE Cardio: normal S1 and S2. Regular rate and rhythm. No murmurs/rubs/gallops.  Respiratory: clear to auscultation bilaterally MSK: no pain upon palpation of the chest   Assessment Ms. Gerry Cage is a 55-year old female present with acute chest pain for 5-10 minutes that occurred with strenuous activity. She notes multiple episodes of chest pain previously with exertion. Blood pressure today is 150/92 despite taking blood pressure medications today. Physical exam is significant for normal cardio and lung exam and no pain upon palpation of chest. Etiology is likely stable angina given chest pain only with exertion, HTN, smoking history, and family history of heart disease. Less likely musculoskeletal in nature (costochondritis) as pain is not exacerbated by movement and palpation on physical exam. Less likely myocardial infarction given absence of pain radiating down left arm but need EKG to confirm.      Plan - EKG - Repeat blood pressure in clinic. Give patient blood pressure cuff for home use and consider adjusting medications based on results. - Discuss diet and exercise.  - f/u in clinic per scheduled   
