Subjective  46 yo male with pmhx of hypertension whpo presents with chest pain that began 3 days ago. he was carrying heavy groceries when he felt pain in left chest, he put the bags down and sat in his his car. the pain resolved in 5-10 min. symptoms were associated with lightheadeness and feeling like he had the "wind knocked out of him. He describnes the pain as a deep ahe  and "heaviness" that is non radiating. for the past 4 months he has been having some episodes of twinging pain that has happend about 2-3 times, bnot painful, and has been very mild. Noi other associated symptoms. He takes his blood pressure at wok and it is usually 1302/80s, with no high or low BP. He never has chest pain at rest. he has no orthopnea  Allergies: none Medications: Clothiadone and lisinopril for blood pressure  PMHX: hypertension  Family History:   Father: MI at 40 with CABG, died at 60 Mother: PE at 60, died at 60 Maternal aunt: breast cancer, died from breast cancer  Social history: Smokes a pack per day for past 20 years ETOH: 2-3 drinks every so often No illicit drug use work in IT  Objective:  Vitals: temp 98, P 85 R 14 BP 150/92 General: anxious appearing middle aged male, not diaphoretic Cardiovascular: RRR, no murmurs, rubs, or gallps. no TTP of the chest wall, radial pulses 2+ bilaterally Respiratory: Normal chest rise, non labored breathing, cleart o auscltation bilaterally Abdominal: bowel sounds normal in all quadrents, no TTP in all quadrents Skin: no sign of infection, trauma, rashes, or other abnormalities Psych: normal mood, anxious affect  Assessment: Summary statemnet: 46 year old male with pmhx of htn who presents with a one episode of deep aching and hea chest pain that occurs with exerction. PE signfdicnatn for elevated BP to 150/92.  Ddx:  Angina-likley given history of htn, smoking history, and that pain comes with exertion MI-likley given father's histry, that it occurs with exertion CHF-less likely given no orthopnea  Plan:  Will order EKG, exercise stress test, echo, and CMP, Troponin levels Pending results of EKG, may send to ED for further treatment.  
