Subjective: Ms. Gerry Cage is a pleasant 55 y/o F who comes to the clinic for evaluation of chest pain that occurred 3 days ago. While carrying groceries to her car, she had sudden onset of substernal chest pain that she describes as a "deep ache, heavy pressure" and lasted 5-10 mins. This did not radiate. The episode was associated with feeling faint and shortness of breath. Denies associated palpitations, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, arm/shoulder pain, or abd pain. She has had 2 episodes of "twinges" in her chest in the last 4 months, one while she was walking up the stairs and one while chasing her cat. Additionally for the last year she has 1-2 episodes per week of epigastric pressure after eating a large meal. This pressure lasts a few minutes. She does not think the episodes are associated with a certain type of food. Denies hx of acid reflux or indigestion. Pt has a history of hypertension and gets her blood pressure checked monthly at her office. She is told by the nurses that her pressure is normal. Otherwise takes her medications regularly and took them this morning. She is very nervous today.  PMHx: HTN PSHx: denies Gyn: menopause age 53, denies use of estrogen, no children Psychiatric hx: denies Allergies: none Meds: corthalidone 25mg once daily PO, lisinopril 10mg once daily PO  SHx: smokes 1PPD for 30 years, drinks 2-3 glasses of wine per day on weekends, denies drug use, diet is mostly healthy consisting of vegetables and protein and no fried or fast foods, walks her dog 1/2 mile per day otherwise no exercise  FMHx: father had coronary artery disease and MI at age 40, mother had HTN, DM and PE at age 60, grandmother had breast cancer, two healthy brothers  Physical exam: General - thin, no acute distress, appears nervous and restles CV - regular rate and rhythm, no murmurs, rubs or gallops, no chest wall tenderness Abdomen - soft, nontender to palpation throughout Respiratory - clear to auscultation bilaterally, normal effort of breathing  Assessment: 55 y/o F with hx of HTN who comes to the clinic for episode of deep aching/heavy pressure chest pain that lasted 5-10 minutes three days ago. Family hx significant for early MI at age 40 and CAD in father. Vital signs significant for BP 150/92. Physical exam remarkable for anxiousness/restlessness. Plan: differential diagnosis includes subclinical myocardial infarction, stable angina (most likely), costochondritis Orders: -EKG -BMP -lipid panel -referral to cardiology for angina workup (i.e. stress test)
