Gerry Cage  Subjective:  Mr. Cage is a 45 year old male with history of hypertension who presents to clinic today for a 10-15 minute episode of chest pain 3 days ago. Pt notes that he was walking out of the grocery store with a few very heavy bags and as he was walking out, he felt this severe pain in the center of his chest. He went and sat in his car for 5-10 minutes and the pain subsided. Pt notes that it was like "getting the wind knocked out of him". Pt denies having pain of that severity before, but notes that he has had little "spurts" of pain in that same area before but they usually go away within a few seconds. Of note, patient also notes that after he's had a big meal, he feels lots of pressure in the upper portion of the stomach/lower portion of the chest, but it usually goes away on its own. Pt denies having any chest pain at this time. Pt has no other associated symptoms at this time including fevers/chills, SOB, N/V/D, or abdominal pain.   Current medications:  - chlorthalidone - lisinopril  Allergies: none  Past medical history:  - HTN  Past Surgical history:  - none reported  Family History:  Father: Heart Attack in 40s Mom: HTN  Social History:  - Occupation: IT manager at capital one - Recent Stressors: none reported - Smoking: 20 pack year history - Alcohol: 2-3 glasses of wine on the weekends - Other illicit drugs: None reported  Objective:  Vitals:  - T: 98 - P: 85 - RR: 14 - BP: 150.92  Physical Exam:  General: Pt sitting upright in bed in no acute distress Cardio: RRR, no murmurs appreciated Pulm: Non labored breathing on room air; clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Abdomen: soft, nontender to palpation, no distension, masses, or guarding appreciated Extremities: Bilateral DP and PT pulses strong. No pitting edema appreciated.   Differentials:  - Myocardial Infarction - GERD - Anxiety attack/panic attack - Aortic Dissection - Pneumothorax  Plan:  -likely had an MI given presentation and prior history of some pain in the area, likely representing unstable angina progressing to an NSTEMI/STEMI - order labs, including CBC, BMP, BNP, troponin  - Order EKG, check for Q waves and other signs of prior MI - Order CXR to rule out pulmonary etiologies - Further workup dependent on results from the above tests 
