Gerry Cage is a 46 year old M with history of HTN who presents after an episode of chest pain a few days ago. He said he was carrying groceries when he felt substernal chest pain that caused him to drop everything. The chest pain stopped after 5-10 minutes. Notably, he has had 2-3 similar episodes in the past month, each of which he described as a ping of chest pain that lasted a few seconds and resolved without other management. Associated with lightheadedness, but otherwise denies syncope, trauma, vision changes or aura, SOB, abdominal pain, back pain, nausea/vomiting, leg swelling, or changes in urination or bowel movements. Has had a few episodes of burning substernal chest pain following eating as well that are not associated with these episodes. Denies history of anxiety or panic attacks. Denies personal or family history of thyroid disease. Dad had a heart attack in his 40s and had CAD. Mom had HTN and T2DM and passed away due to PE. Takes chlorthalidone and lisinopril for HTN - with good BP control at home and medication adherence. Does not exercise, drinks a lot of coffee and has a poorly balanced diet.   BP 150/92 HR: 85 RR: 14 Temp: 98  General: well-appearing male in no acute distress CV: regular rate and rhythm; non tender to palpation of anterior chest wall Pulm: lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally with equal breath sounds.  Abd: non tender to palaption in all four quadrants LE: no edema  Gerry Cage is a 46 year old M with history of HTN who presents with 3-4 episodes of chest pain in the last month worsened by exertion and associated with lightheadedness. Notably, has FH significant for dad with CAD/history of MI at early age and mom with PE. VS notable for elevated BP, but physical exam is unremarkable.  1. Arrhythmia: chest pain with positive FH  2. Anxiety/panic attacks: less likely given lack of SOB and psych hx/inciting events 3. GERD: substernal chest pain that burns at times, but less likely to cause lightheadedness 4. Stable angina: chest pain on exertion, none at rest  Will do EKG with possible ECHO. May require a beta blocker. Can trial pepcid for GERD. 
