S: Gerry Cage is a 46 year old male with history of hypertension who presents with an episode of chest pain 3 days ago. Patient reports he was carrying groceries to his car when he experienced sudden onset of severe 7/10 constant chest pain, no radiation. Reports he felt "stunned" and a bit lightheaded. Denies N/V, shortness of breath, diaphoresis. Patient reports it lasted 5-10 minutes and was alleviated without intervntion as he sat and rested in his car. Patient reports that in the past 4 months he experienced similar episodes where the pain was 2/10, also with exertion however the pain was more of a twinge and lasted 1-2 seconds.   PMh: htn Meds: chlorthalidone 25 mg daily lisinopril 10 mg daily   Allergies: none  Surgeries - none Fam hx:  Father - CAD, MI in 40s, bypass surgery Mom - DM2, htn, pulm embolism Maternal grandmother: breast cancer 2 healthy brothers  Social:  - tobacco, 1 ppd for 20 years - alc - 2-3 glasses of wine 2x a week -drugs none - stressors - none - occupation - works at capital one    O:  vitals: Temp 98,  Pulse 85, RR 14, BP 150/92 Pe:  General: Well appearing gentleman, pleasant CV: Regular rate and rhythm, no murmurs rups or gallops, no bilateral lower extremity edema Resp: Clear to auscultation bilaterally anteriorly posteriorly  A&P Mr cage is a 46 year old male with history of htn and tobacco use disorder who presents for intermittent, worsening centralized chest pain without radiation. Vitals significnat for elevated blood pressure, physical exam benign. Most concerning for stable angina since pain is triggered by exertion in addition to hypertension, smoking history, and fam hx of CAD. Other possible diagnoses include unstable angina, anxiety, costochondritis. Low suspicion for aortic dissection given stable presentation, PE given normal RR and normal o2 sat.    Plan -  - Would get EKG and troponins  - Schedule stress test - Pt reports he is compliant with medications however bp was still high today - Diet and lifestyle modifications, re-evaluate in 4 weeks, if not improved would consider increasing hypertensive medications to optimize control lowering risk of MI and stroke - Discuss smoking cessation if pt is amenable   
