CC: chest pains  HPI: 46yo M presents with recurring chest pains. He has had short epidosed of chest pain centrally located in the past while running or stair climbing that resolve on their own. ThisFriday while carrying grocerieis from the stroe to his car, he had a longer episode for 5-10 minutes that resolved when he sat down and rested. The pain is centrally located and a 7/10 at its worst. H edescribes the pain as "deep ache and heaviness". He also reports episodes after eatuing big meals where he has a pressure centrally located but below the site of his other pains that goes away on its own and happen 2-3 times per week. BPs mostly 120/80s at home.  Social - 1PPd x 20 years, no drug use, social alchol intake Fam hx: Mother - HTN, DM, died at 60 from PE Father - MI with bypass surgery in 40s, died at 77 2 brothers healthy and alive  Meds: chlorthalidone 25mg PO daily, lisinopril 10mg PO daily Allergies: none  Physican Exam:   VS: 150/92,85, 14, 98  CV: RRR, no murmurs,. rubs, gallops Lungs: CTAB Pulses palpable 2+ (radial and posterior tibial) No edema of lower extrmieities  Assessment: Mr. Cage is a 46yo M with intermittent achy heavy chest pains that resolve on their own centrally located with a strong fmaily history of heart disease. Most likely stable angina for the chest pains on exertion and GERD for the chest pressure after big meals. Possibly NSTEMI or STEMI but would need EKG for this. Less likely respiratory related like PE given they self resolve quickly.  Plan: 1. EKG as soon as possible to assess heart; also troponin given only a few days out from event and could still see elevation 2. Nitroglycerin sublingual tabs instructed to be used if the pain does not resolve on its own after a few minutes and to take another if persistent after 15 minutes and to call 911 at this time 3. recheck BP and monitor, may need to add a medication on top of regimen 4. Trial PPI (pantoprazole 40mg PO daily) for GERD 5. Counseled to avoid laying down or going to bed after big meals to limit GERD symptoms too
