Gerry Cage He/him S: Patient is a 46 year old male with a history of high blood pressure who had an episode of chest pain a few days ago when he was walking out of the grocery store with a couple bags in hand. He suddenly had a deep aching chest pain rated 7/10 that "knocked the air out of him" and required him to sit in the car for 5-10 minutes until it went away. He reports that over the past 4 months he's had this twinges 2-3 times that lasted a couple seconds and were rated a 2/10 for pain. These episodes only come on during exertion. He also reports that he was light headed during this past episode which hasn't happened before. He also reports that he's had occasions where after a big meal he feels a pressure in a similar area and after 5 minutes it goes away. No known history of snoring. No pillows used during sleeping, difficulty breathing, coughing reported. Normal blood pressure is 130/80.  Currently taking chlorthalidone (25mg daily PO) and lisinopril (10mg PO daily) for high BP. His diet includes a lot of coffee and whatever is available to him. Walks 1 mile total a day with his dog. He also smokes 1 pack a day of cigarettes and has done so for the past 20 years. He also consumes 2-3 glasses of wine on Fridays and Saturdays. Father passed away after bypass surgery s/p heart attack in his 40s. Mother had history of high blood pressure and diabetes, passed away at age 60 from pulmonary embolism.  O: BP 150/92 P: 85 RR: 14 T: 98  PE: Cardiac: regular rate rhythm, S1 S2 no S3 or S4 appreciated. No murmurs, rubs, gallops. No JVD, no hepatojugular reflex. No abdominal aneurysm palpated. No carotid bruits appreciated. Adequately perfused. Lungs: Clear to auscultation bilaterally anterior and posterior fields  A: Patient is a 46 year old male with pmhx of high blood pressure and positive family history of heart attack, high blood pressure, diabetes and pulmonary embolism in first degree relatives presenting with increasing frequency and intensity of chest pain episodes that occur with exertion. PE was significant for elevated blood pressure at 150/92 which is abnormally high compared to home blood pressure of 130/80. Most likely diagnosis is stable angina due to history of increasing episodes of chest pain only at exertion followed by differentials of GERD, costochondritis, orthostatic hypotension.   Plan: - patient is very concerned about having a heart attack due to family history and may be willing to decrease cigarette use - smoking cessation review at follow up visit - add a beta blocker to plan - recommend increase exercise - refer to cardiology for outside follow up if patient is interested - f/u in two weeks  - track BP  - blood tests lipid profile, statin start
