Subjective: Mr. Cage is a pleasant 46 y/o male with a history of HTN who presents to clinic today with an episode of exertional angina. He states that a few days ago, he was carrying heavy groceries to his car when he experienced 7/10 substernal chest pain that he described as a "heavy, deep ache." He states that he sat down for 10 minutes, and then the pain went away, but in the moment it "took my breath away." He states that he feels fine now. He also notes that over the past 4 months, he had a few similar episodes of chest pain, once while he was running and once while climbing stairs that felt like a "twinge" of 2/10 pain that dissipated over a couple of minutes. He states that additionally over the last year after a large meal he has fullness along the epigastric region, but no other symptoms of indigestion. He denies any radiation of the chest pain, shortness of breath, numbness or tingling. His main concern is getting this pain checked out.  PMHx: - HTN  Rx: - Clorthalidone, 25mg 1x daily - Lisinopril: 10mg, 1x daily  Allergies: none  Family hx: - Dad: heart attack in 40's, had a bypass - mom: HTN, DM, PE   Social: - Smoking: 1 PPD for 20 years - EtOH: a few glasses of wine a week - No drugs - Works as a marketer at capital one  Objective: - Vitals: T: 98.0, P: 85, R : 14, BP: 150/92  PE: Gen: no acute distress Pulm: CTAB, short respirations bilaterally CV: RRR, No murmurs, 2+ pulses radially, DP, and PT bilaterally, no edema bilaterally Abd: non-distended, non-tender, no organomegaly Neuro: a/o x 4  Assessment: Mr. Cage is a pleasant 46 y/o male with a history of HTN who presents to clinic today with an episode of exertional angina. Physical exam was benign. Given his extensive smoking history, it is likely that this is stable angina secondary to ischemic heart disease. Less likely is a myocardial infarct, given the quick resolution.  Plan: - Discussed an exercise stress test with the patient to rule out exertional angina, 48 hour monitor if negative - Will obtain troponins to r/o MI - Will refer to cardiology is positive testing  Noah Feld, M3
