CC: "recent chest pain"  HPI: Gerry Cage is a _yo patient with a history of HTN who presents to clinic today complaining of recent chest pains. Patient states that he was unloading groceries a couple of day ago when he felt dull, aching chest pain that "knocked this wind out of me". He also endorses associated lightheadedness. Patient states that he has noticed "twinging" in his chest over the course of the last 4 months on exertion, but that they did not bother him and usually lasted only 1-2 seconds. Patient states that this recent episode concerned him much more than previous ones and wanted to get this checked out. He denies recent illness. Otherwise patient denies palpitations/shortness of breath/nausea/vomiting/headache/visual changes. Patient states he checks his BP at home and it usually runs in the 130s/80s. His HTN is managed by his PCP.  Medications: Chlorthalidone 25mg - HTN Lisinopril 10mg - HTN  Allergies: NKMA  PMHx: HTN - diagnosed 5 years ago. No hospitalizations/sugeries  Social: Tobacco: 1pk/day Alcohol: 6 drinks/week Drugs: none  Family History: Mom - HTN, DM2, died at age 60 due to PE Dad: heart attack in 40s, bypass surgery  Objective:  Vitals: BP 150/92 HR: 85 RR: 14 Temp 38.0F  PE: General: well appearing middle aged male in no acute distress. Alert and oriented. Chest and Lungs: CTAB Cardio: no LE edema bilaterally, RRR, S1, S2  Assessment/Plan: Gerry Cage is a yo M with a history of HTN, tobacco use who presents to clinic with recent chest pain on exertion. Physical exam unremarkable, family history notable for HTN/DM2/heart onset MI. Most likely diagnosis is stable angina as patient has chest pain upon exertion and has several cardiovascular risk factors including tobacco use, hypertension, family history. Less likely diagnosis include MI, PE, GERD, hyperthyroidism.  Plan: - Obtain CBC/BMP/lipid panel/TSH in clinic today or from PCP - Obtain troponin to rule out MI - EKG in clinic today - evaluate for arrhythmias.  - Given cardiac risk factors, patient is likely appropriate for stain therapy.  - Patient hypertensive in clinic today, can consider increasing lisinopril dosage or starting additional medication such as amlodipine. - Possible referral to cardiology pending EKG findings/presence of persistent hypertension. - Counsel patient on smoking cessation 
