Subjective: Ms. Cage is a 55 y/o F w/ h/o HTN presenting for evaluation of chest pain that occured 3 days ago. She notes an isolated episode of substernal chest pressure rated 7/10 that began while carrying groceries out to her car and lasted several minutes before being relieved by resting. She notes associated dyspnea and lightheadedness with onset at time of pain and resolution when pain resolved. She notes x2 revious occurences in the past 4 months that also occurred with exertion though in comparison those were brief twinges w/out additional symptoms; this episode was worse. She notes intermittent epigastric cramping pains lasting severla minutes immediately after eating approx x1-2 per week for the past year; no meds tried. She deneis leg swelling, current symptoms, n/v, and all other symptoms at this time.   PMHx: HTN, well controlled Sx: none FHx: mother deceased from PE at 60 y/o; father deceased from MI at 40 y/o; mother DM2 Sx: smokes 1ppd for 30+ yrs. alcohol x1-2 glasses wine weekend nights, no drugs; works at capitol one and sedentary lifestyle other than walking dog in the mornings  medications: lisinopril PO 10mg daily and chlorthalidone 25mg PO daily both for hypertension allergies: NKDA  Objective VS: 98F, HR 85, RR14, BP 150/92 PE: Appears generally well, skin warm dry, lungs CTAB, chest wall nontender ant and pos, S1/S1 clear, RRR, no m/r/g, abdomen soft nontender, nondistended, normal bowel sounds, no peripheral edema, distal pulses BLE and BUE 2+  No labs or imaging  Assessment: 55 y/o F w/ h/o HTN and tobacco use presenting for intermittent episodes of exertional chest pain, relieved by rest that are now worsening in intensity. Exam unremarkable Most likely dx is stable angina given classic presentation of substernal pressure onset w/ exertion and relieved by rest. Other possible ddx include GERD, anxiety, or muscle strain.   Plan: - EKG - CBC, BMP, lipid panel - refer for outpatient stress testing - Rx nitroglycerin SL PRN w/ instructions for BP requirements of use -  recommend at home BP monitoring more regularly w/ f/u to address possilbe need for additional HTN mgmt 
