CC: “my chest hurts” Subjective: Mr. Cage is a 46-year-old male with hx of HTN who presents for evaluation of chest pain. He describes an incident a few days ago when he was carrying heavy groceries and had pain in his central chest that was a level 7/10. The pain resolved after 5-10 minutes with rest. Had associated lightheadedness and shortness of breath. No radiation down the left arm, to the back, neck or angle of the jaw. No headache, diaphoresis, nausea or abdominal pain. Has had 2-3 similar instances over the past 4 months with sharp chest pain during exertion. Endorses occasional discomfort in his epigastric area but denies symptoms of acid reflux. No other concerns.  PMHx is significant for HTN FHx is significant for: Dad- CAD, MI, s/p CABG Mom- HTN Social hx: smokes 1ppd cigarettes >20 years. Drinks 2-3 glasses wine/week. No illicit drug use.  Meds: Chlorthalidone 25 mg daily, Lisinopril 10 mg daily NKDA Objective: T 98 P 85  RR 14 BP 150/92 General: Well appearing middle aged man in no acute distress. Well groomed with good hygiene.  Cardiovascular: Normal rate, regular rhythm. Pulses 2+ radial, dorsalis pedis and posterior tibialis bilaterally.  Respiratory: Non labored breathing. Lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally. No wheezing, rales or rhonchi.  Neuro: A&O x 3.  Assessment: 46 yo male with history of HTN and active smoker who presents for evaluation of chest pain that occurs with exertion and resolves with rest.  Most likely stable angina given nature of pain and resolution with rest. Also likely given strong family hx and personal risk factors of HTN and smoking. Less likely given he noted some discomfort with foods. Unstable angina also likely but less so given the pain only occurs with exertion.  GERD is also likely as it can result in central chest pain but less likely given the pain occurring with exertion rather than following meals.  Plan: 1. EKG while in office to r/o MI 2. Order lipid panel, HbA1C and CBC  3. Order stress test to assess for stable vs unstable angina.  4. Start ASA 81mg daily for prophylaxis  5. Counseled on smoking cessation. Will revisit at next appointment. 6. RTC in 2 weeks with results of stress test.   
