S: Ms. Cage is a 56 year old female who presents to clinic due to chest pain that occurred 3 days ago. She was carrying 2 jugs of water at the grocery store when she suddenly had a sharp and deep twinge of pain in the midline sternal area, which took her breath away. She had to sit in her car until the sensation subsided, which took about 5-10 minutes. Nothing to this degree has happened in the past, although she has had occasional twinges of pain in the same area with physical exertion such as chasing her cat or walking up a flight of stairs.   She denies any radiating pain to the arms. She does not experience the sensation with palpation to the area. She denies any nausea/vomiting, sick contacts, fever/chills, headaches, or vision changes. She is most worried about whether she had a heart attack.   ROS: She states she sometimes has pressure in her upper abdomen after a meal, but no frank reflux symptoms.   PMHx: hypertension   FMHX: father with CAD and a heart attack at 40 years  of age   shx:  eats a regular and healthy diet  drinks about 1-2 drinks on the weekends, wine/beer  smokes 1 pack/day for the last 30 years  drinks 4-5 cups of coffee/day  medications: chlorthalidone and lisinopril   O:   v/s: BP 150/92 R 14 P 85 T 98 Physical exam:  cardiac: Normal S1/S2 sounds, regular rate and rhythm. No s3/s4, rubs murmurs of gallops. PMI auscultated; nondisplaced.  lungs: clear to auscultation bilaterally. no crackles/rales MSK: pain is not reproducible on palpation of sternal area or clavicular area.   A: Ms. Cage is a 56 year old female with pmhx hypertension who presents to clinic with acute onset chest pain that lasted for 5-10 minutes about 3 days ago. the pain was located in the mid-sternal region, deep, was non radiating, and took her breath away. She has similar symptoms with any exertional activity. vitals significant for hypertension, physical exam is nonsignificant. ddx includes stable angina, coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure. sx most consistent wit stable angina picture including Time it takes for sx to resolve, and that it happens on exertion. a degree of CAD is likely given smoking history of 30 pack years and coexisting hypertension    P: Obtaining ECG in office today. will refer for stress test (both stress ECG and echo) to evaluate for any ischemic changes or anatomical/valvular changes   
