Mr. Cage is a 46y/o M with a history of HTN, presenting with a 4 day history of exertional chest pain. He notes that the onset occurred when he was carrying heavy groceries and felt a sudden, severe, heavy, deep aching pain. The pain lasted between 5 to 10 minutes and was relieved by sitting in the car without moving. He says that the pain did not radiate and was localized to the center of the sternum. He states that he has experienced much milder pain at times of the past 4 months in the same location, always during exertion, these instances lasting 1-2 seconds. Also notes that he has symptoms of indigestion that only occur if he eats a very large meal, most often after lunch.   Allergies: None  Medications: Chlorthalidone 25 mg qd, lisinopril 10 mg qd  Medical history: Hypertension Surgical history: none Psychiatric history: None  Family History:      Father: MI when he was in his 40's, required bypass     Mom: Hypertension  Social history:      Smoking: 1 ppd for 20 years     Alcohol: 1-2 glasses of wine on the weekends     Drugs: none     Work: IT work for Capitol One  Vitals: T: 98 F, P: 78, RR: 14, BP: 120/71 Physical Exam:   General: Middle aged male, well-appearing, NAD  HEENT: PEERL, no lymphadenopathy  CV: Regular rate and rhythm, no murmurs/rubs/gallops, S1/2 present without splitting  Lungs: CTAB, no rales, rhonchi, wheezing, normal work of breathing  Skin: no pallor, warm to touch  Psych: depressed mood, not responding to internal stimuli, regular speech latency  Assessment: 46 y/o M with a history of HTN presenting with intermittent sternal area chest pain due to exertion over 4 months. Given symptoms and presentation, most likely typical angina. Higher risk factors also present for angina including hypertension, long smoking history, and family history. Less likely GERD related pain given exertional component.   Plan 1. EKG, exercise stress test as tolerated 2. BMP/CBC/Lipid Panel/LFT's/HbA1C. Troponin less useful given timeline of events 3. Recommend smoking cessation given ASCVD risk factors 4. Statin for lipid control pending labs 5. Can consider beta blocker for long term management as well
