Subjective: Mr. Gerry Cage is a 47 year old man with HTN presenting for exertional chest pain. Over the past 4 months, he has had 4 episodes of chest pain with physical extertion. He states that the pain is a deep ache in the center of his chest. In his most recent episode, the pain reached a 7/10 while his prior episodes hurt less and resolved quickly. Recently, he was carrying several bags of groceries from his car, and had to sit down in his car secondary to the chest pain. Feels like the 'wind gets knocked out of [him]' when it occurs.  Additionally, when eating a large meal at lunch, he feels a deep pressure in his chest that resolves after 10-15 minutes. He states that there is no pain. Has no history of GERD. Denies n/v  ROS: Denies SOB, fevers/chills, increased WOB, numbness/tingling, changes in mood during episodes.  PMHx: Hypertension  Meds: Chlorthalidone lisinopril  Social: Drinks 4-6 drinks per week on the weekends Smokes 1 ppd for 20 years denies illicit drugs  Family: Father has CAD, had MI in his 40s, needed a CABG Mother has HTN, T2DM, died of a PE  Objective: Vitals: 150/94, HR 85, RR 14, Temp 98F General: Alert well-groomed man in a gown for encounter. Anxious CV: Well perfused, RRR, no murmurs gallops or friction rubs. 2+ bilateral radial and DP pulses Pulm: CTAB anteriorly & posteriorly, no increased WOB Neuro: Sensation in-tact bilateral upper and lower extremities  Assessment: Mr. Gerry Cage is a 47 year old man with HTN presenting for acute onset intermittent chest pain with exertion. Family history significant for MI s/p CABG in his father in his 40s  Plan: Intermittent Exertional Chest Pain: Likely stable angina vs arrhythmia vs MI vs cholecystitis vs PE vs aortic dissection. Given exertional nature with resolution when resting, pain is likely ischemic secondary to CAD in setting of stable angina. - EKG - Outpatient Stress test - Smoking Cessation Discussion - Lipid Panel - Sublingual nitroglycerin -325 Aspirin PO daily - Discuss precautions for evaluation in ED if pain persists despite rest  Hypertension: BP 150 today in clinic, likely secondary to anxiety. Will repeat measurement and follow up for medication titration in clinic. May switch medication from chlorthalidone to beta blocker to prevent ischemic cardiac remodeling - Repeat BP in f/u appt - Change from chlorthalidone to metoprolol pending stress test & repeat BP results
