Subjective: CC: "my back is acting up" HPI: Mr. Cage is a 47 year old male with history of HTN presenting for one episode of chest pain. Pain occurred three days ago after pt was carrying heavy groceries. It is described as a deep ache/heavy pain, 7/10 and was located in the center of his chest. It did not radiate and lasted 5-10 minutes before going away on its own. During the episode, pt had difficulty breathing like "he got the wind nocked out of him." Was also lightheaded during episode.  Denies SOB and dizziness at baseline. Pt has never had an similar episode prior but has had a few "twinges" of pain in the past 2-3 months when exerting himself (running, walking up stairs). Pt has been compliant with BP medications and monitoring BP at home (normally 130's /80's)  ROS: negative for fever, n/v, SOB, changes in vision, HA positive for CP, lightheadedness    PMHx: HTN PSHx: none Medications: Chlorthalidone, Lisinopril  Allergies: none  FHx: mother- HTN, T2DM, pulmonary embolism father- MI in his 40's, s/p coronary bypass  Social Hx: tobacco - smokes 1 pack/day for 20 yrs alcohol - 2-3 beers every Friday and Saturday drugs - denies   Objective: VS: BP 150/92 HR 85 R 14 T 98  Physical exam:  General: NAD Cardiac: Normal rate, regular rhythm, no peripheral swelling  Pulmonary: Clear to auscultation bilaterally Abdominal: normoactive bowel sounds, nondistended  MSK: no TTP of anterior chest wall   Assessment/plan: Mr. Cage is a 47 year old male with history of HTN presenting for one episode of chest pain.  Pt is well appearing today with elevated BP and benign physical exam. Most likely stable angina given acute onset chest pain with exertion, HTN, smoking history, normal physical exam. Other differentials include MI, lung malignancy, CAD, PE.   - Labs: lipid panel  - EKG  - If EKG negative, begin atenolol for treatment of angina  - Repeat BP - Present to ED for acute onset chest pain that persists after a few minutes or is accompanied by nausea, vomiting, SOB, sweating/chills, anxiety, pain that radiates to arm/back  
