Mr. Gerry Cage is a 46 year old male who presents with a chief complaint of chest pain - Episode of chest pain occured 3 days ago while he was carrying heavy groceries to the car - He describes the pain as a "deep ache" that "knocked the wind out of him" - The pain was located in the center of his chest, it did not radiate anywhere, no pain elsewhere in his body - The pain subsided after he was resting in his car for 5-10 minutes. - No pain as intense as this has every occured before. He does mention that over the past 4 months he has felt minor chest pain when he exertes himself like walk his dog quickly, but the previous episodes have not been as intense as the one 3 days ago and the pain has not lasted as long - pain has never occured when he is at rest - he sleeps well and denies ever waking up frequently at night, waking up like he can't breath. He does not sleep with more than 1 pillow at night. ROS: positive for lightheadedness. No dizziness, no chest palpitations, shortness of breath, no abdominal pain.  Medications: - Takes 25mg of Chlorthalidone once a day and 10mg of Lisinopril once a day for hypertension Allerigies: none  past medical history: Hypertension for 5 years no surgical history Family history: mom had hypertension and died from pulmonary embolism. Dad had heart attack in his 40's Social history: patient works at Capitol One in IT, he is sedentary for most of the day. Does not exercise besides walking his dog once a day. Diet consists of a lot of coffee, eats cafeteria food most days  Objective: T 98 P 85 R 14 BP 150/92  Physical Exam: Cardio: normal rate, regular rhythm. S1 and S2 normal. No S3 or S4. No clubbing. PMI is not displaced. JVP is 3cm above sternal line.  Lungs: normal repsiratory effort, no increased work on breathing. Clear, vesicular breath sounds throughout 4 fields bilaterally   Assessment: Mr. Gerry Cage is a 46 year old male who presents with a chief complaint of chest pain. Most likely etiology is Exertional angina.  Plan: - Increase Chlorthalidone to 50mg once a day - Continue Lisinopril, 10mg once a day - Order stress test to evaluate exertional angina - Encourage smoking cessation, consider prescribing cessation medication
