Pt is a 46 yo M who presents to clinic for concerns of one episode of chest pain occurring 3 days ago. Pt states he was carrying some heavy groceries to his car when he acutely developed substernal, non radiating chest pain, which he describes as "dull and aching." Also endorsed feeling lightheaded (although no syncope/LOC or falls) as well as if the "wind had been knocked out of him". Pt states he had to set his groceries down, then sat in his car, after which the pain resolved within 5-10 minutes. Pt denies any other hx of similar CP, however does note he has gotten brief, several-second episodes of CP in the past on exertion, although they always self-resolved very quickly and never had SOB. Denies any CP at rest, diaphoresis, jaw or arm pain, vision loss, HA, edema, abdominal pain/fullness. Does not believe he has ever had an echo or EKG. Concerned if he had an MI.  PMH: HTN Surgeries: None Imm: UTD per pt Allergies: NKDA Social: 2 glasses wine 2x week, smokes 1 ppd x20years, no drug use, lives alone, works in IT FH: Dad - MI in 40's s/p bypass; Mom - T2D, HTN, PE Medications: Chlorthalidone, Lisinopril   Objective Vitals: T 98, P 85, BP 150/92, RR 14 General: Thin, Well-appearing gentleman in NAD HEENT: PERRLA, EOM intact CV: RRR, no m/r/g. No carotid bruits. Radial pulses 2+ BL. No JVD. No peripheral edema Pulm: CTAB, good airflow and chest expansion MSK: Chest NTTP, full rom of shoulders/spine Abd: ND, NL BS   Labs: None  A/P: Pt is a 46 yo M presenting with an acute episode of non-radiating CP and SOB, occurring on exertion, lasting 5-10 minutes and relieved with rest 3 days ago. Most likely diagnosis is stable atypical angina, as pt meets criteria for exertion & relieved by rest iso underlying HTN, although not exactly classic in terms of presentation. Also will need to r/o ACS (i.e. MI), although less likely as no hx of CP at rest/unstable angina.  Plan: 1. EKG, TTE, CXR, Troponins/CK, Lipid panel 2. Consider additional medical therapy including BB, statin
