HPI: Mr. Gerry Cage is a 46 year old with hypertension who presents with chest pain. He reports an episode of mid-sternal chest pain that he describes as a "deep ache and heavy" while he was walking while carrying heavy groceries 3 days ago which was non-radiating and lasted for 5-10 minutes. He also had lightheadedness during this episode and had to sit down and rest which resolved his pain. He notes that for the past 4 months, he had several episodes of pain when he exerted himself which lasted a couple of seconds. He also reports a feeling of "pressure" in his epigastrium after eating a heavy meal. He denies fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, and shortness of breath.   Medical History: Hypertension, treated with Chlorthalidone and Lisinopril Family history: Mother - Pulmonary embolism in 60's, father - myocardial infarction in  40's and had a bypass surgery Social history: -Tobacco: Currently smokes tobacco 1 pack/day for past 20 years -Alcohol:3-4 glasses/week -Denies marijuana and drug use PE: -No chest wall tenderness, regular rate and rhythm, no edema swelling -Lungs: Clear to auscultation bilaterally  Assessment: Mr. Cage is a 46 year old male with hypertension and 20 pack-year tobacco use who presents for mid-sternal chest pain with exertion. Vitals are significant for an elevated blood pressure of 150/92 , and physical exam does not reveal chest wall tenderness. Differential diagnosis of chest pain includes acute coronary syndrome due to pain with exertion and significant family history and risk factors of hypertension and tobacco use. Other diagnosis include costochondritis which is unlikely due to lack of tenderness on palpation and pulmonary embolism which is unlikely due to recurring nature of pain with exertion. Biliary sludge/gallstones are a possibility due to epigastric pain after eating.   Plan: -Get EKG while resting -Get labs - CBC, CMP, troponin -Schedule patient for stress test  -Get right upper quadrant ultrasound to check for gallstones in gallbladder
