Subjective: 56 y/o female with a PMH of HTN presenting with an episode of CP 3 days ago. Pt states she was walking out of a store carrying groceries when she suddenly felt midsternal chest pain and lightheadedness. She was able to get to her car and symptoms resolved spontaneously after 5-10 minutes. states she felt that her wind was knocked out of her but no SOB after that initital feeling. She describes the CP as a deep ache and pressure.  Of note, she has had similar episodes of pain 2-3 times in the past 4 months during exertion. She describes those instances as "twinges" of momentary pain that resolve quickly. She also c/o epigastric discomfort when she eats a lot of food, however no reflux sensations. Denies LOC, HA, f/c, recent illness, palpitations, heart racing sensations, diaphoresis, shakiness, muscle cramps/spasms, change in stooling or urination, SOB at rest, or any other associated symptoms. She feels well in the clinic today. She has never had an EKG or stress test in the past.  Takes Chlorthalidone and Lisinopril for HTN. No other medications. She did take her medications this morning.  Objective:   temp 98, pulse 85, resp 14, BP 150/92 General: somewhat anxious-appearing woman sitting on exam table. No acute distress CV: Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs, rubs, or gallops. 2+ dorsalis pedis BL. 2+ Radial BL. No LE edema.  Pulm: CTA BL. No wheezes, rales,  Skin: warm and dry.  Assessment: 56 y/o Female with a PMH of HTN presenting with episodes of chest pressure and lightheadedness on exertion. High suspicion for angina given context of symptoms, description of pain, and spontaneous resolution with rest. Need to r/o MI, arrythmia, anemia. Suspicion for neurological or pulmonary etiology is low. reflux/indigestion is possible, however less likely given setting of symptom onset.  Plan: - EKG and stress test in clinic today. Pending results, can order a cardiac echo if results are not revealing. - Labs: Troponin, CBC with diff, CMP. -Recheck BP after 5-10 minutes in office today. Pt did take her BP this morning and says she measures it 1x/month at work and "all values were normal". Will have pt check BP at home for next 2 weeks if value is still elevated in office today prior to medication changes. -F/u 1 week or sooner pending results.  Sophia Barakat, M3
