CC: "Sudden deep ache in my chest"  Subjective:   Mr. Cage is presenting for "sudden, deep" mid-sternal chest pain, rated to be 7/10. Notes that he was at grocery store about 3 days prior carrying larger load of groceries with onset of chest pain. He dropped groceries and had to sit in car, pain self-resolved after 5 minutes. In the past 4 months, he has noted similar twinges sub-sternally that occur with increased exertion. He denies any dyspnea on rest, orthopnea, edema. He has no idea of what could make it better or worse. Primary concern is that this may be heart attack or leading towards heart attack. He does not have a strong support system.   - Meds: Chlorthalidone 25 mg PO everyday and Lisinopril 10mg everyday for HTN  - PMHx: hypertension, managed by PCP last seen about 6 months ago with unknown lab results  - FHx: Dad had MI around 40 years, with subsequent bypass surgery; Mom had pulmonary embolism  - Social: current employee at Capital One, Diet: 3 meals/day, Walks dog 2x day, Drinks 2-3 glasses of alcohol on Friday/Sat, smokes 1 PPD x 20 years    Objective:   Exam:  - General: Anxious appearing male in no acute physical distress - Respiratory: CTAB, No wheezing, rhonchi or crackles, no diminished breath sounds, no pain to palpation on anterior or posterior chest wall  - Cardiovascular: RRR, No murmurs/rubs/gallops, PMI not-displaced, no peripheral edema, 2+ radial and dorsalis pedal pulses bilaterally    Assessment: Mr. Cage is a patient with history significant for hypertension currently presenting with substernal chest pain that is worsened with exertion and no focal findings on physical exam.   Differential:  1. Stable Angina : worsened with exertion and better with rest chest pain; will need further testing to r/o more severe causes.  2. Non-stable Angina: unlikely as exertion usually brings it on but can consider progression considering significant history of HTN as well as cardiac and hypercoagulable family history.  3. Anxiety/Panic: less likely as it is usually associated with exertion but patient is anxious on today's exam and states lack of support system.   Plan - Obtain EKG, Echocardiogram  - Troponin, Lactate - CBC, BMP, BNP  - Vitals stable, no need to increase meds
