SUBJECTIVE Mr. Cage is a male presenting for chest pain. He reports having an episode of midsternal chest pain a few days ago while carrying heavy groceries. The pain is described as a deep, heavy ache. He sat in the car and the pain self-resolved 5-10 minutes later. He reports associated lightheadedness and feeling "winded" during the episode. He has had minor painful "twinges" in his chest for the past few months when running or climbing stairs, but they lasted for a few seconds. The most recent episode of chest pain felt more intense and longer. He also reports occasional pressure in the epigastric area which occurs after eating and usually self-resolves after 5 minutes. he denies any diaphoresis, palpitations, fever,  chills, nausea, vomiting, anxiety, or leg swelling.   Medication: Chlorthalidone 25mg daily for HTN. Lisinopril 10 mg daily for HTN.  Denies any allergies, hospitalizations, or surgeries.  Family History: Father (alive, 77) had an MI at 40 years old. Mother (deceased in 60s) had HTN and died from pulmonary embolism.  Smoking: 1 pack of cigarettes per day for 20 years.   OBJECTIVE Vital Signs: T 98.0 F. Pulse 85. R 14. BP 150/92.  Physical Exam:  - General: Patient is sitting comfortably on exam bed. No acute distress or diaphoresis noted.  - Cardiac: Normal S1 and S2 sounds. No murmur, rubs, or gallops noted. No tenderness to palpation of anterior chest wall.  - Respiratory: Clear to auscultation bilaterally, posteriorly. No crackles, wheezes, or rhonchi noted.   ASSESSMENT: Mr. Cage is a male with medical history of hypertension, 20 pack years of smoking, and family history of MI presenting for chest pain. Vital signs significant for hypertension of 150/92. Physical exam unremarkable. Given change in characteristics of usual chest pain, most likely diagnosis is unstable angina. However, will need to rule out myocardial infarction.   PLAN - Risk stratification with TIMI score.  - Order EKG to rule out myocardiac infarction.  - Consider starting antiplatelet therapy with aspirin, statins, and nitrates (as needed). - BP is not at goal of <130/80. Will increase lisinopril dose and advise patient to monitor BP at home and bring log during next visit. 
