S: Mr. Cage is a 46 yo male with hx of HTN who presents with 3-day hx of chest pain that is nonradiating. He was carrying groceries when the pain started. He went to his car and sat down for a few minutes and the pain went away. It is “deep ache, heavy”. He also recalls a few other similar episodes in the past 4 months that went it way after a few seconds, usually in the setting of running or going up stairs. In addition, he has also noticed that he gets “stomach pressure” after big meals in the past few weeks, that happens 2-3 times a week without acidic reflux into mouth or worsening of symptoms when lying down. Otherwise doing well and denies fever, chills, dizziness, syncope, palpitations, SOB, n/v/d, numbness/tingling, severe headaches. PMH: HTN Meds: clothialidone, Lisinopril Allergies: none FHx: mom died of PE, also had HTN, DM, Dad died of heart attack in 40s. Siblings healthy. SHx: smoking 1PPD x 21 years, drinks alcohol 1 glass on weekends. Denies other drug use.  O: VS: 98.0F, 150/92, 14RR, 85HR Physical exam: HEENT: eyes ROM intact, no gross cranial nerve deficits CVS: normal heart sounds, normal rate/rhythm, no murmurs/rubs/gallops. Apex is not palpable, No pain with palpation of the chest. 2+ peripheral pulses. Cap refill <2 seconds Lungs: clear lungs in all lobes. No crackles/wheezes/rhonchi Abd: +bowel sounds, no TTP in all quadrants, no masses MSK: no edema in LE, pedal pulses 2+ bilaterally  A: Mr. Cage is 46 yo male with hx of HTN who presents with nonradiating substernal chest pain after exertion and recovers with rest that is concerning for early onset of stable angina, especially considering family hx of MI in 40s in father and 4 months hx of similar episodes. Other ddx include: GERD, MSK trauma  Plan: need to rule out heart conditions first. -EKG today, +/- stress test -refer to cardiology as needed -need to control HTN, have patient write BPs at home for two weeks, if needed go up on dose of Lisinopril -start PPI for GERD and see if it helps with symptoms -RTC if symtpoms worsen 
