HPI Gerry Cage is a female with PMHx of HTN presenting to clinic for x3 days of chest pain with exertion and associated symptoms of SOB. Characterizes pain as a deep achy sensation that improves with rest, does not radiate. Notes she has not had anything like this type of pain in the past but notes that x4 months ago she has had x2 episodes of “twinges” where she gets a chest “twinge” that is not painful but she notices it with exertion and improves with rest. Her last episode x3 days ago was when she was carrying groceries from her car to home. She states that during this action, she became very winded and had that deep achy pain. Endorses associated symptoms of lightheadedness, stating she thought she would pass out with most recent episode. Has not taken any medications for her pain. Voices that she also has an epigastric pressure pain that is exacerbated with food. The epigastric pain does not radiates and improves with rest. Notes the pain feels different from her chest pain. Voices that she is concerned she had a heart attack. Has no other complaints at this time. PMHx  HTN Social history: Tobacco: 1PPD EtOH: 2-3/week  Drugs: denies Surgical history: denies FMHx: Father: MI s/p CABG (passed at age 40), Mother: DM, pulmonary embolism; brothers (2) health   Meds: Lisinopril 10mg daily, chlorthalidone 25mg daily Allergies (reaction): denies   Objective: General: sitting upright at edge of exam table; no acute distress, well groomed VS: BP: 150/92 HR: 85 RR: 14 T: 98  Cardio: RRR, no gallops, clicks or rubs, no BLE edema, PT and DP pules; no JVD,  Abdomen: No tenderness to palpation of epigastric region, no guarding, rebound; no hepatomegaly Assessment and plan: -GERD v. stable angina -will obtain EKG to assess for ST changes -will obtain CBC, CMP and lipid panel to assess for hypercholesterolemia -will start statin if LDL is elevated -will obtain troponin to rule out STEM and NTESMI -will get exercise stress test to assess for angina and start nitroglycerin if angina present -will start monotherapy for CAD to lower risk of ischemic event  -will obtain left heart catheterization based on exercise stress test and will consider PCI v. CABG if indicated per left heart catheterization and stress test -will increase Lisinopril to 20mg for cardio-renal protective properties and improve blood pressure goals with systolic <140 -return to care if chest pain persists even at rest and with no improvement with nitroglycerin -follow-up with PCP or cardiology for further care based on results of stress test 
