Name: Gerry Cage HPI: Gerry Cage is 38 y/o M who presents after having chest pain while carrying groceries on Saturday. He had to drop everything and sit in his car for 5-10 minutes to relieve the pain. The pain was a deep ache, heavy pain at the center of his chest and did not radiate elsewhere. He has experienced this before on exertion 2-3 times in the past 4 months, but only lasted 1-2 seconds. No pain at rest. ROS positive for lightheadedness and feeling like the wind was knocked out of him during the event. Denies SOB, dizziness, fevers, chills.   Meds: Chlorthialidone, Lisinopril  Allergies: none PMHx: HTN w/ BPs in 130/80 range Surgeries: none FHx: mom died of PE and hx of DM2, HTn; Dad had MI at age 40 with CAD and bypass surgery; Maternal gma died of breast cancer Social Hx: Drinks a few beers every 3 days; 10 year history of tobacco usage – smokes 1 pack every week; denies drug usage; diet is “normal”; occupation is heavy physical work at Amazon lifting boxes up to 40lbs; exercise is limited due to back pain, but usually consists of whatever she does at work Vitals: 150/92 HR 85 RR 14 T 98 Physical Exam:  - Gen: NAD; awake, alert; patient sitting up in bed - HEENT: normal conjunctiva; EMOI; no JVD - CVS: RRR no murmurs; 2+ brachial pulses, dorsalis pedis bilaterally  - Lungs: CTAB; good air movement - Abdomen: soft, not distended, non-tender to palpation - Extremities: no edema - Skin: warm, dry, well-perfused - Neuro: A&Ox3 - Psych: Pleasant Assessment: Ms. Smith is a  38 y/o M w/ PMHx of HTN and smoking who presents w/ chest pain in the center of his chest on exertion that was relieved with rest after 5-10 minutes. Physical exam unremarkable. Patient likely has stable angina as his chest pain is substernal, worse w/ exertion, and relieved with rest. Unlikely to be panic disorder as he does not have a history of anxiety and is not worried about this happening in the future. Less likely to be HF as his JVD is not elevated, no SOB, and no LE edema.  Plan:  - EKG to assess ischemia - Serial troponins - BNP to assess HF - CBC, lipid panel, screen for DM2 w/ A1C - Given age and typical chest pain, patient is at high risk so stress test - Start patient on high intensity statin (atorvastatin 40mg), beta-blocker (metoprolol), and low dose ASA 81mg daily for mortality benefit after tests come back  - Increase dose of Lisinopril given his BP of 150 - Will discuss tobacco cessation and lifestyle modifications at follow up visit 
