SUBJECTIVE: HPI: Mr. Cage is a 47 yo M who presents with episode of chest pain 3 days ago. He reports that while walking with heavy groceries to his car he had an episode of substernal chest pain that lasted 5-10 minutes. He describes it as a deep, heavy ache that he rates as 7/10 in severity. It resolved after resting in his car and he had associated SOB and light-headedness at the time of the episode. He denies any diaphoresis, radiation of the pain, or dizziness. Over the past 4 months he has had 2-3 episodes of similar chest pain, that last much shorter time periods and always occur while he is doing something strenuous (running, walking up stairs). He also reports over the past year he has 2-3 episodes weekly of midsternal/epigastric pressure after big meals that last ~5 minutes. Every episode has resolved on its own and he has not tried anything to help.   PMH: HTN. Immunizations and health maintenance UTD Meds: lisinopril 10mg daily, chlorthalidone 25 mg daily Allergies: none FMH: Father had MI in his 40s that resulted in bypass surgery. Mother had HTN, DM, is deceased 2/2 PE. SH: works IT at Capital One. Lives alone in an apartment with his dog, Rufus. Smokes 1ppd x 20 years. Drinks 2-3 glasses of wine on the weekends. Denies drug use  OBJECTIVE: Vitals: BP 150/92   HR 85   RR 14    Temp 98F General: well-appearing, well-groomed, normal body habitus, in no acute distress CV: RRR, no m/r/g, no chest wall tenderness, 2+ radial pulses, no LE edema, no carotid bruits Respiratory: CTAB, no increased work of breathing  ASSESSMENT: 47 yo M with episodic chest pain during exertion that improves with rest. Most likely diagnosis is stable angina due to his history of risk factors like HTN and smoking, his description of chest pain as heaviness that improves with rest, and family history of MI in his father. Other possible diagnoses could be unstable angina as new onset within the last 4 months, GERD as has some chest discomfort after meals.   PLAN: - EKG to assess for any ischemic changes  - May consider referral to cardiology wiht possible TTE or cardiac cath.
