ID: Gerry Cage   CC: Chest pain   HPI: Mr. Cage is a middle aged M with a PMHx of HTN who presents to clinic after an episode of chest pain. Mr. Cage states that 3 days ago he was carrying his groceries back to his car when he felt the sudden onset of chest pain that caused him to feel lightheaded and have the wind knocked out of him. The pain self resolved after approximately 5-10 mins. He states that he has experienced a similar but significantly less severe pain several times over the past 4 months with exertion but never while resting. He reports having a history of epigastric pressure after eating for the last year as well but denies any associated pain or regurgitation during these episodes. He denied any other associated symptoms including nausea, vomiting, or diaphoresis.   Medications:  Chlorthalidone PO 25mg once daily  Lisinopril PO 10mg once daily   Allergies: none   PMHx: HTN  PSHx: None  Family hx:  Father: CAD, MI, and bypass surgery in his 40s  Mother: HTN, T2DM, passed due to pulmonary embolism  Social history  Tobacco- smokes 1ppd for 20 years  Alcohol- 2-3 glasses every friday and saturday  Drugs- none   Objective Vital signs: BP: 150/92, HR: 85, RR: 14, Temp: 98F  Appearance: resting comfortable, sitting, in no acute distress PE Cardio: RRR, no murmurs, rubs, or gallops. No pain to palpation of the anterior chest wall. Radial pulses are regular and 2+ bilaterally.  Lung: CTAB anteriorly and posteriorly. No pain to palpation of posterior chest wall. No wheezing or abnormal lung sounds.  Abdomen: No pain or tenderness to palpation. No obvious abnormalities.    A/P Mr. Cage is a middle aged M with a PMHx of HTN who presents to clinic after an episode of chest pain while exerting himself and associated lightheadedness. He reports similar episodes in the past which where much less severe. On physical examination he is noted to be hypertensive, with normal heart rate and rhythm. Symptoms likely due to unstable angina due to the worsening of chest pain symptoms over the past 4 months with exertion, this would also be supported by patients family and smoking history. Symptoms could also be due to NSTEMI given chest pain, family, social, and past medical history of HTN. less likely costochondritis due to absence of chest wall tenderness though possible due to onset of chest pain with exertion. Less likely GERD due to onset of most recent episode with exertion as opposed to relation to meal.   Plan:  1) Send to ED  2) Obtain labs: troponins, CBC, CMP  3) Obtain EKG  4) Depending on labs/EKG could consider obtaining stress test vs cardiac catheterization. 
