Name: Gerry Cage DOB: 05/04/1975 Age: 46 C/C: "I'm worried about this chest pain I had a few days ago."  HPI: Mr. Cage states that he was carrying his groceries three days ago when he starting having a pain in the substernal region of his chest. He then rested and the pain went away after about 5-10 minutes. He describes the pain as a deep ache and feeling of heaviness. He states that he has had episodes like this a few times over the last couple months when exerting himself, but they usually go away after a few seconds. He denies any worsening of his pain when taking a deep breath.   ROS: positive for pain in substernal region after eating, usually goes away after a few seconds-minutes. ROS otherwise negative  PMH: HTN  Meds: Chlorthalidone 25 mg 1x/day Lisinopril 10 mg 1x/day  Allergies: none  Surg hx: none  FH: Dad: CAD and MI at age 40 Mom: HTN, DM2, PE, passed away from complications of PE at age 60 maternal GM: breast cancer  Soc hx: 1 ppd smoker for 20 years (20 pack years) 2-3 glasses of wine/night on weekend nights no other drug use  Physical Exam: Gen: alert, no acute distress HEENT: moist mucosa, conjunctivae clear, no scleral icterus CVS: Regular rate and rhythm, normal S1/S2, no m/r/g. Pulses 2+ b/l in upper and lower extremities Chest: CTAB, no wheezing, rhonchi, or crackles. No chest wall tenderness Abd: soft, non-distended, non-tender, no rebound or guarding Skin: no lesions, jaundice  Assessment: Mr. Cage is a 46-year-old male who presents with an episode of chest pain after exertion. Leading item on differential is stable angina which is supported by patient's pain after exertion, relief of pain after rest, and family history of CAD; differential also includes costochondritis (supported by pain after lifting, less likely due to lack of chest wall tenderness and relief of pain after 5-10 minutes) and aortic dissection (less likely due to lack of murmur on exam, relief of pain after 5-10 minutes)  Plan: Will obtain EKG, CXR, get labs including troponins May consider echo to rule out thrombus Refer for stress test Prescribe nitroglycerin for pain Start aspirin, beta blocker, statin
