CC: chest pain  HPI: Mr. Cage is a 41 year old male with PMHx of HTN presenting with complaint of acute onset chest pain 3 days ago. He reports that he was carrying heavy groceries to the car when he had sudden severe, substernal chest pain that "knocked the wind out of him". He sat on the ground for 5-10 minutes until the pain self resolved. He also described feeling light headed. Denies all other symptoms at the time. He notes that he has had "twinges" in his chest in the past 3-4 months with exertion, such as running to catch the bus or taking a lot of stairs. He also notes that he sometimes notices a substernal pressure after eating a large lunch, but is unsure whether that is related to his exertional chest pain.   PMHx: HTN Rx: chlorthalidone, lisinopril  Allergies: none   FHx: - Mother: HTN, T2DM, died from pullmonary embolism - Father: MI age 40's s/p CABG - Maternal grandmother: breast cancer  SHX: - Tobacco: 1 ppd for 20+ years - EtOH: 2-3 glasses of wine per weekend - Drugs: denies use of illicit drugs - Occupation: IT specialist at Capital One - Exercise: walks 1/2 mile twice a day with dog   Assessment:  Mr. Cage is a 41 year old male with PMHx of HTN presenting with acute onset substernal chest pain with exertion 3 days ago with associated light headedness. Vital signs and physical exam today are within normal limits, social history notable for smoking 1 ppd for 20+ years.   DDx:  1) Unstable angina  2) GERD  Plan: 1) Unstable angina: most likely diagnosis due to the patient's history of exertional chest pain and lightheadedness. HTN and smoking history are risk factors. Patient also has family history of cardiovascular disease.  - Obtain EKG  - Draw BMP, CBC to rule out electrolyte abnormalities  - Refer to cardiology for further follow up  - Advised patient to keep log of all episodes of chest pain   2) GERD: likely with postprandial pain pattern, but likely  unassociated with angina as describe above - Start trial of omeprazole 20mg QD  - Monitor   Christine Shieh
