Subjective: CC: chest pain HPI: Mr. Gerry Cage is a 46-year-old male with a history of hypertension who presents following an episode of exertional substernal chest pain occurring 3 days ago and resolving in ~10 minutes with rest. The patient states that he was carrying groceries to his car when he suddenly felt a "deep ache" and a "heavy" sensation in the middle of his chest. The pain caused him to drop his groceries, and after sitting in his car for 5-10 minutes the pain resolved. He felt lightheaded at the time and says that he felt like the "wind had been knocked out of [him]". Denies diaphoresis, palpitations, numbness, tingling. He has felt a similar pain in the past during exertion which has been much milder and lasting only 1-2 seconds. The patient reports occasionally feeling a "burning" sensation in his chest after meals but says that the recent pain felt different. No pain currently. He says that he did not feel anxious at the time and denies any new life stressors. He reports a fhx of CAD in his father who experienced an MI at 40 years old and required CABG. He is a current smoker with a 20 pack-year history. He has a history of hypertension and chest his blood pressure regularly, reports 130s/80s recently. PMHx: HTN: takes Chlorthalidone and Lisinopril, diagnosed 5 yrs ago No surgeries No hospitalizations FHx: MI in father at 40 y/o SocHx: drinks 2-3 glasses of wine 2x /week Current cigarette smoker, 1 pack/day x20 years No recreational drugs Objective: Vitals: BP 150/92, P 85, RR 14, Temp 98.0F Exam: Pleasant, anxious-appearing male seated comfortably on exam table. No acute distress. Cardio: Normal rate, regular rhythm, no murmurs. Radial pulses 2+ bilaterally. No carotid bruit bilaterally. Pulm: bilateral lungs clear to auscultation in all fields Abd: No aortic or renal bruits. A&P: Mr. Gerry Cage is a 46-year-old male with a family history of CAD in father (MI 40 y/o) and a personal hx of hypertension who presents following an episode of exertional substernal chest pain occurring 3 days ago and resolving in ~10 minutes with rest. Exam is unremarkable. Plan: History concerning for acute coronary syndrome based on strong family history, exertional substernal chest pain resolving with rest, personal history of hypertension and tobacco use. Ddx to include GERD, panic attack, aortic dissection, pancreatitis, gastric ulcer. Order ECG to assess for ischemic changes. Order CBC, troponin I, CK, lactate to assess for ischemia. Recommend cardiac stress testing.
