S: Gerry Cage is a 46 year old male with PMH of 20 pack year smoking history and hypertension and family history of father having an MI and bypass in his 40s presenting for an episode of chest pain that happened with exertion 4 days ago which resolved with 5 minutes of rest.  Gerry was carrying a large amount of groceries to his car 4 days ago when he felt a deep, achy, "heavy" pain in his chest. This caused him to drop his groceries and sit in his car to rest. After 5 minutes of rest, the pain resolved. He felt a bit lightheaded at that time. He denies diaphoresis, loss of consciousness, change in bowel or bladder function. He recalls that he has had similar but less intense episodes of this pain on exertion "a few times" over the last four months. They never happen at rest, and always resolve quickly with rest.  He states that other than his hypertension, he is healthy. His blood pressure is usually in the 130s over 80s. He sees a PCP annually, and has never been told he has high cholesterol. His family history is positive for mom having diabetes and father having early heart disease, with an MI and bypass in his 40s.  Today he is anxious but not experiencing the pain. He has taken his medications today.  meds: clorthalidone 25mg once daily  lisinopril 10mg once daily allergies: none  O: Vitals  t98 p85 rr 14 bp 150/92 PE: CV normal rate reg rhythm, no murmurs rubs or gallops.  PMI nondisplaced, 5th intercostal at midclavicular line, nickel sized feet are warm and well perfused no JVD appreciable  radial pulses 2+ bilaterally shins without edema Resp: CTAB, air movement is good  A:  Mr. Gerry Cage is a 46yo male with treatment resistant hypertension, tobacco use disorder, and family history for early onset heart disease presenting for 5 minute history of typical anginal pain without alert symptoms with elevated blood pressure today and otherwise benign physical exam, most concernign for typical angina. warning symptoms of loss of consciousness, pain at rest, and unremitting pain were discussed, he expressed understanding of calling 911 in these situations  plan clinic ekg stress echo outpatient lipid panel cardiac enzymes go to ED for symtoms above or if problems worsen prescribe nitro for pain  refer to cards
