Subjective: Mr. Cage is a (did not get age) male who presents with complaint of chest pain in the epigastric region. He noticed pain 3 days ago while carrying groceries to his car. he had to set down his groceries and stand still then pain went away 5-10 minutes later. at the same time he felt a little lightheaded and "like the wind knocked out of me." He has noticed similar instances of chest pain over the past 4 months while he has been climbing stairs or running. It usually goes away when he stops exerting himself. He also complained of pressure in the epigastric region after following lunch which he's noticed for the past year. It goes away soon after eating.  Meds- chlorthalidone 25 mg daily, lisinopril 10 mg daily  PMHx- HTN FHx- dad heart attack at age 40 with bypass, mom HTN, DM, pulmonary embolus (deceased) Social- 1ppd smoking for past 20 years, 2-3 glasses of wine on weekend nights, no other substances. works at capital one. Diet includes a lot of caffeine and whatever he finds appetizing. Does not exercise but walks dog slowly.  Objective: BP 150/92, temp 98, pulse 85, RR 14 CV- RRR, no murmurs rubs or gallops in sitting, laying, and lateral decubitus position, brisk carotid upstroke, no carotid bruits bilaterally. Did not access JVD. Abdominal aorta ~2 cm. Did not assess pulses.  Assessment: Mr. Cage is ? year old male with complaints of epigastric chest pain with exertion and epigastric pressure after meals. Most likely diagnosis is angina due to history of pain with exertion and settles afterwards and PMHx of hypertension, FHx of heart attack at a young age. Additionally, GERD with worsening epigastric pressure after large meals.  Plan: Lipid profile today to check cholesterol levels if patient fasting, if not come in tomorrow morning. May need to start statin. Also likely increase dosing on blood pressure medication due to elevated level, goal is <130/80. Can have patient monitor BPs at home before change. Will calculate ASCVD risk. Recommend exercise stress test. Additionally, can start PPI for GERD like symptoms.
