Subjective HPI: Gerry Cage is a 55 yo F w/ hx of HTN who presents for evaluation of transient, exertional, substernal chest pain three days ago. She states symptoms began while she was carrying heavy groceries in a parking lot. Symptoms lasted for 5-10 minutes and resolved after sitting down for a little while. Pain was non-radiating and not associated with any nausea, vomiting, or other symptoms. She has had several similar "twinges" in the past that were less severe and only lasted 3-5 minutes. Pain during these episodes was also exertional.   PMHx/PShx: Hypertension  Social hx:  -Tobacco - 30 pack year history -Lives alone -Drinks alcohol socially  Family hx: -Dad has hx of CAD, MI at 40 yo. - Mom has hx of diabetes  Meds: -Lisinopril 10mg -Chlorthalidone 25 mg  Objective Vitals: BP 150/92, HR 85, T=98 F, RR 14 Exam:  General - well-appearing, comfortable. NAD Cardiovascular - No MSK pain over chest wall. RRR, normal heart sounds, no murmurs. 2+ radial and dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally. Pulm - Equal breath sounds bilaterally, lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally   Assessment Ms. Cage is a 55 yo F with hx of HTN and Family hx significant for early MI in Dad (at age of 40) who presents with hx of exertional, non-radiating, substernal chest pain for several months now (acutely worse episode 3 days ago). History notable for significant smoking hx and family hx of CAD. Exam unremarkable today but chest wall tenderness absent. Most likely anginal chest pain (stable angina). Less likely costochondritis or other MSK chest wall type of pain. Less likely heart attack given nature of episode/severity. Does not appear to be unstable angina given no symptoms at rest.  Plan -Recommend EKG today in clinic to assess for any new or old ischemic changes -Can consider possible stress test given high level of concern for stable angina -Would recommend starting on a statin and ASA today prevent worsening of possible CAD and recommend possible nitrates for home in case of emergency exertional chest pain. -Already on ACEi which is a great BP agent but should increase given ongoing hypertension at todays visit. Consider med change. -check lipids, CBC, CMP -Troponin not likely helpful at this point - no pain for 3 days
