SUBJECTIVE:  Gerry Cage is a 46-year-old male with PMHx of HTN who presents to the office for evaluation of an episode of acute onset, substernal chest pain that occurred 3 days ago. He states that he was lifting heavy groceries when he first noticed the pain, which he describes as a "heavy, deep ache". He also endorses lightheadedness at the time of symptom onset. He denies any pain radiating into his arms or other areas. Symptoms resolved with 5-10 minutes of resting in his car. He reports that he has had 2-3 episodes of "twinges" of substernal chest pain over the last 4 months, most notably when he is either running or going up stairs. He denies any shortness of breath, HA, vision changes, or lower extremity edema.  PMHx: HTN, diagnosed 5 years ago FHx: Father (deceased, 71) - MI in his 40s, CABG; Mother (deceased, 60 from PE) - HTN SHx: Non-contributory Social Hx: Smokes tobacco 1 ppd for last 20 years, EtOH 2-3 glasses of wine on the weekends, no other drugs  Meds: Chlorthalidone, lisinopril  Allergies: None   OBJECTIVE: Vitals:  T 98 P 85 R 14 BP 150/92  Physical Exam:  Constitutional: Well-appearing man in no acute distress, sitting comfortably on exam table.  Cardiac: S1, S2 with normal rate and rhythm. No S3, S4, murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  Lungs: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. No clubbing of digits. No wheezing. Normal respiratory effort.  Extremities: No lower extremity edema bilaterally.   ASSESSMENT:  Gerry Cage is a 46-year-old male with PMHx of HTN who presents to the office for evaluation of an episode of acute onset, substernal chest pain that occurred 3 days ago, concerning for stable angina given that his symptoms occur with exertion and resolve with rest. Other considerations include myocardial infarction given personal history of HTN and tobacco use and FHx of early MI in his father or valve dysfunction, such as aortic stenosis given history of HTN.   PLAN:  - Obtain EKG to assess for myocardial ischemia - If EKG is normal, obtain TTE to evaluate for valvular dysfunction and cardiac stress test to evaluate for reversible ischemia/stable angina - Patient BP is 150/92 today and will likely require additional BP control. Consider increasing dosage of chlorthalidone and lisinopril or switching to a different agent for improved control.  - Obtain BMP to assess kidney function while taking HTN medications
