Subjective:   Mr. Cage is pleasant appearing male with PMHx significant for hypertension who presents to clinic for evaluation of chest pain. The pain began ~4 months ago with exertion related to climbing stairs and walking to his car. He states the pain is centrally located in his chest and feels like a "pressure." More recently, a few days ago, he noticed a more severe pain as he was loading groceries. Again, he states the pain is like a "deep pressure" and it "took the wind out of him." The pain subsided with sitting in his car for ~10 mins. Denied any pain radiating to his neck or his left arm during this episode. Additionally denies any syncope related to the pain or pain at rest. He also notes he occasionally has a similar pressure 5-10 mins after eating meals, but states this pressure is different than what he experienced while loading groceries. Denies any history of reflux or previous MI. His most significant concern is that he is having a heart attack or at risk of a heart attack.  Meds: Lisinopril, chlorthalidone  PMHx: Hypertension  FHx: Hypertension in mother, previous heart attack and bypass surgery in father   SHx: smokes 1 ppd x 20 years, drinks a few glasses of wine on social occasions. Denies any illicit drug use including cocaine.   Objective:   VS: T=98, P=85, BP=150/92, RR=14  Physical Exam: - General: Pt is alert, oriented to time in place, well groomed, tidy, and not in any acute distress - CV: Normal S1/S2, RRR, no murmurs/rubs/gallops/S3/S4. Carotids free of bruits on auscultation and palpable with 2+ pulses bilaterally. No pain elicited with palpation of the anterior chest wall. PMI is 2 cm in diameter and nondisplaced. Radial, post tib, dorsalis pedis all 2+ b/l. - Lungs: CTAB, no wheezes/crackles/rhonchi - Extremities: No LEE  Assessment: Mr. Cage is a gentleman with PMH s/f HTN who presents for evaluation of exertional chest pain. Denies any radiation or syncope. Physical exam unremarkable, cardiac exam wnl. Given history of exertional CP and benign physical exam, most likely diagnosis is stable angina. Other differentials include unstable angina vs. GERD.  Plan:  - Obtain routine EKG - Obtain Echo - Obtain stress testing - Given echo and stress results, can consider nitro for symptomatic relief.  Geetika Reichmann, MS3
