Ms. Gerry Cage is a 55 yo female with pmh of HTN who presents for concerns of chest pain. She reports having a deep heavy aching chest pain that occurred 3 days ago while she was carrying groceries. She rates this pain as 8/10 and that it self-resolved in a few minutes after sitting in her car. . She has no pain currently. She endorses associated SOB and feeling faint. She denies any radiating pain, sweating, nausea, or palpitations. She endorses experiencing similar, but less severe pains, over the past 4 months which she calls "twinges" she rates these pains as 2/10. She reports they came on while chasing after her cat and going up a flight of stairs, although she does not feel like she was exerting herself 3 days ago when the pain occurred. She denies any associated edema in legs/feet, coughing, SOB. She endorses some epigastric pressure post-prandially but does not think this is associated with her chest pain. She denies any new stressors or changes. She describes her mood as "anxious" because of the chest pain but previously her mood was good.  Meds: lisinopril, HCTZ allergies: none PMH: HTN Family HX: Dad - heart attack at 40 yo, mom: HTN, DM, pulmonary aneurysm - deceased, grandmother: breast cancer   Objective Vitals: 150/92 PE:  Cardio: regular rate rhythme, no murmurs, rubs, gallops, no tenderness to chest wall. no deformities  Pulmonary: clear to auscultation bilaterally, no wheezing, rales, good effort    Assessment Summary: Ms. Gerry Cage is a Ms. Gerry Cage is a 55 yo female with pmh of HTN who presents for concerns of chest pain as 8/10 3 days ago with similar milder episodes over the past 4 months. Family hx notable for heart disease.   DDx: Unstable angina: likely due to onset of CP without exertion, associated SOB, timing of symptoms. PMH of HTN Myocardial infarction: likely due to chest pain, less likely due to symptoms 3 days ago, no diaphoresis, no radiating chest pain. CHF: likely due to CP, associated SOB, HTN, less likely due to acuity of symptoms no associated SOB  Plan - EKG - troponins Cardiac stress test - provide nitroglycerin 
