Subjective: CC: Chest pain HPI:  Ms. Cage is a 55-year-old female who presents 3 days after an episode of chest pain. She reported that she was carrying groceries when she began to feel a deep squeezing midline pressure. She reported that the pain did not radiate and that she was able to get full relief after sitting in her car quietly for 5-10 minutes. She also reported roughly a 4 month history of similar episodes that occurred during physical exertion and all of which resolved with rest. This most recent episode was the worst, which prompted her visit today. She also endorsed feelings short of breath and faint during these episodes. She denied dizziness, heart palpitations or nausea during the episodes.  Allergies: None Medications: Chlorthalidone for HTN. Lisinopril for HTN. PMHx: HTN FHx: Father - hx of CABG in 30s. Died from MI at 40. Mother - DM and died of PE at 60. SHx: EtOH: Wine on weekends. Tob: 1 PPD. Drugs: Denies   Objective: BP= 150 /92 P = 85 RR = 14 T = 98F  Assessment: Ms. Cage is a 55-year-old female who presents 3 days after an acute episode of chest pain during exertion that resolved completely with rest after 5-10 mins. This is most likely stable angina given the patient's subjective report of typical chest pain symptoms with complete resolution with rest. Significant concerns for progression given her reported history of the most recent episode being the worst. Given her family history of heart disease in her father, there remains concerns for familial inherited dyslipidemia. Her history of smoking is also concerning for contribution to the disease progression. Her hypertension also seems to be uncontrolled and will warrant further workup. Will make contact with PCP for medication adjsutment. DDx includes: unstable angine, acute MI, PE, aortic dissection, esophageal spasm, hyperthyroidism Plan: -CBC with diff - CMP with hepatic panel  - Hgb A1c levels - TSH levels  - EKG to evaluate ischemic changes  - Isosorbide mononitrate today for symptomatic relief
