Gerry Cage is a 58 y/o F with a history of hypertension who presents to clinic for evaluation of chest pain. Ms. Cage reports acute onset of heavy, aching nonradiating midsternal chest pain 3 days ago while walking out of a grocery store. She notes associated "feeling faint" and states that the pain briefly "took my breath away" but denies other diaphoresis, numbness, tingling, shortness of breath, weakness. She denies alleviating or aggravating factors but states that the pain resolved after 3-5 minutes while resting in her car. She notes similar "twinges" over pain occurring 2-3x over the past 4 months that have always occurred with exertion, but states that this is the most severe. She additionally notes occasional upper abdominal "pressure" after "eating too much" but otherwise denies abdominal pain, n/v/d/c, fever, chills, or shortness of breath. Pmhx: HTN--diagnosed 5 years ago Pshx: denies Pfhx: mom--htn, pulmonary aneurysm Dad--MI (age 40--deceased), CAD s/p CABG otherwise denies fhx heart dz, stroke Psochx: Smokes 1 ppd x30 years, drinks alcohol socially (2-3 drinks on the weekends), no illicit drug use. Works at Capital One primarily desk job. No regular exercise. Endorses "healthy" diet Meds: chlorthalidone 25 mg daily, lisinopril 10 mg daily No allergies O: BP 150/92 HR 85 RR 14 T 98F General: middle aged female in no acute distress, breathing comfortably CV: RRR, No MRG. Laterally displaced PMI. Aorta not palpably enlarged.  Pulm: CTAB, no wheezes, rales, ronchi Abd: Soft, NTND, no masses A: 58 y/o female with a hx HTN on lisinopril and chlorthalidone presenting with exertional chest pain worsening over the past 4 months. She has significant risk factors for heart disease including hypertension, tobacco use, family history of early onset heart disease and early death due to MI. Given these I am concerned for stable angina, less likely that she had an acute MI given clinical presentation or unstable angina given lack of sxs at rest. Presentation not consistent with GERD but could also consider this. Her BP was also elevated in the office although this could be related to stress. I would like a repeat BP in office and she may need adjustment of antihypertensive regimen in the future. - EKG - Troponin, CK-MB - Ordering outpatient stress test  - Will likely start on aspirin 81 mg daily  - Encourage tobacco cessation - Repeat BP prior to discharge from clinic today
