Subjective CC: chest pain a few days ago HPI: Gerry Cage is a 46 yo M with a PMHx of HTN presenting today for c/o chest pain that arose 3 days ago. He reports carrying groceries to his car when he experienced chest pain, described as a "deep ache, heaviness" and lasting for 10 min, resolving with rest. He reported also feeling lightheaded and SOB at the time. He reports having multiple similar episodes of chest pain over the last 2-3 months, arising on exertion, lasting for a few seconds, and resolving with rest. He also has been experiencing a pressure sensation in the center of his chest over the past year after consuming large meals, not associated with any pain. Denies fevers, chills, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, heartburn, cough, pain in jaw or L arm, numbness/tingling, headaches, diaphoresis, vision changes.  Objective Meds - chlorthalidone 25mg QD, Lisinopril 10mg QD Allergies - NKDA PMHx - HTN, diagnosed 2017 PSHx - None FHx - Father - MI in 40s, s/p CABG; Mother - PE, DM, HTN Social history: ETOH - 2-3 glasses wine/weekend; Tobacco - 21 pack year history, current smoker; Other drugs- none; Occupation - IT  PE General: well-appearing male, NAD HEENT: atraumatic, normocephalic CV: RRR, no M/R/G, well-perfused, no LE edema Chest/lung: CTAB, no wheezes/rales/rhonchi Abdomen: soft, non-distended, non-tender  Assessment Gerry Cage is a 46 yo M with HTN presenting for evaluation of chest pain. He reports multiple episodes of chest pain  that arises with activity, lasts for seconds up to 10 minutes, and resolves with rest, with associated lightheadedness and SOB. He also reports pressure sensation in his chest after large meals. PE remarkable for elevated BP despite on 2 anti-HTN meds. Likely diagnosis is stable angina, with underlying GERD. Other differentials include costochondritis, asthma, or other acute coronary syndromes  Plan 1. Labs today to check lipids, A1c, CBC, CMP 2. Start amlodipine for HTN control 3. cardiology referral for EKG and stress test 4. Trial of PPI for GERD  
