Patient is a 55yo female w/ h/o htn who presents with c/o of sudden onset chest pain 3 days ago. The pain started when she was lifting heavy groceries back to her car and lasted for a few minutes, and disappeared after about 5-10 mins of rest. She describes the pain as a dully, achy pressure in her upper chest; she also notes that at onset of the pain, she felt she couldn't catch her breath and she almost fainted. She has had 2-3 similar episodes in the past that were milder, but all occurred with exertion and disappeared with stress. She denies nausea/vomiting/fever/chills, back pain, numbness/tingling or pain in her arms, SOB, or pain with breathing. She also notes a 1 year hx of mild epigastric pressure (similar to her chest pain) that typically occurs after she eats a large meal.  Meds: Lisinopril, Chlorthalidone (both for htn) NKA Mhx: Htn, no surgical hx FHx: father hx of CAD with CABG prior to passing from MI at 40yo. Mother hx of T2DM, Htn, and passed at 60 from PE. Maternal GM had Breast cancer SHX: drinks 2-3 glasses of wine/day on the weekends, smokes 1ppd, denies drug use. Lives in a house with her spouse and a has a dog named Rufus. Works at Capitol One in Branding  Vitals: 150/92, 85, 14, 98F PE: General: well-appearing, normal body habitus, not in acute distress CV: RRR, S1/S2 no murmurs rubs or gallops,  C/L: CTAB Abd: soft, nondistended, nontender  Assesment: 55yoF w/ htn presents with episodes of worsening exertional chest pain. Most likely stable angina as pain is described as pressure, associated with heavy exertion, has had previous episodes and recently worsening, has many vascular risk factors for CAD (htn, smoking, alcohol use, sedentary lifestyle). Less likely to be ACS at this time as sx's have resolved with rest. Possibility of GERD from previous episodes of epigastric pressure with large meals, but less likely to be cause of chest pain as it occurred without meal. Less likely to be MSK as no TTP on CV exam. Less likely to be primary lung process as afebrile, CTAB, no dyspnea or SOB.  -Start ASA 81mg daily  -BMP/CBC/Lipid Panel -Troponin, CKmb -EKG -CXR  -Refer to cardiology for cardiac stress testing and further evaluation (e.g. left heart cath) and management.
