Gerry cage is a middle aged male with PMHx of HTN presenting to the clinic for evaluation of sudden onset chest pain 3 days ago. Patient reports he was carrying heavy groceries when he had sudden onset of nonradiating, "intense" chest pain in the center of chest that lasted 5-10 minutes. Patient had to return to his car and rest until the pain subsided. He has never experienced similar pain before and has not had any episodes since then. He endorses mild lightheadedness and breathlessness during the episode. He denies any other symptoms.  He reports he has previously had some minor chest pain/pressure that was associated with swallowing food; however, he reports this pain does not feel similar to the other episode. Reports taking HTN medications as prescribed; sees doctor regularly. Denies a history of CAD or HLD. Ultimately reports concern for heart attack.  PMHx: chlorthalidone 25mg PO daily, lisinopril 10mg PO daily Social: works as IT for Capitol One, walks dog twice daily but otherwise no strenuous exercise; drinks 2-3 EtOH drinks on weekends, smokes 1PPD. FMHx: Dad: MI at age 45 Mom: T2DM, deceased 2/2 PE MGM: deceased 2/2 breast cancer  Vitals: 98F, 85 HR, 14 RR, 150/92 BP Exam: anxious-appearing, sitting on bed comfortable Regular rate and rhythm of heart. No murmurs, no rubs, no abnormal sounds.  Lungs CTAB. No tachypnea or increased work of breathing. Good lungs sounds throughout. Abdomen soft, nontender, nondistended. No rebound or guarding.  Assessment: Gerry cage is a middle aged male with PMHx of HTN and cigarette smoking presenting to the clinic for evaluation of sudden onset, exertional chest pain 3 days ago. Exam significant for hypertension. History concerning for new exertional chest pain. Family history concerning for T2DM, PE in Mom; MI in Dad at 45. Etiology likely unstable angina 2/2 CAD. Less likely aortic dissection PE, STEMI, GERD, esophageal cancer.  Plan -Obtain ECG, CBC, troponin, CK -Refer to Cardiology for IP work up and need for cardiac catheterization -Advised to seek emergency help if pain returns or has onset of tearing pain, difficulty breathing, lightheadedness. 
