Subjective: Gerry Cage is a 46-year-old male with past medical history significant for HTN presenting with chief complaint of acute onset of non-radiating retrosternal chest pain that he characterizes as a "heaviness" that began 3 days ago while carrying some heavy groceries to his car with associated lightheadedness and mild SOB. He states these symptoms resolved within 5-10 minutes after getting to his car and sitting down. He reports 2-3 other episodes of much more mild and shorter "twinges" of chest pain that have occurred sporadically over the last few months, also with stress (running and walking up the stairs) but notes that these episodes did not last as long and did not have the same associated symptoms. He also reports a mild pressure sensation in his upper abdomen after eating large meals that has been ongoing intermittently for the last year, denies any pain or burning sensation. He denies any palpitations, dizziness, SOB at rest, nausea, vomiting, fever, chills, or diaphoresis.   Mediations: Chlorthalidone (25 mg QD), Lisinopril (10 mg QD); no recent changes in either medication Allergies: NKDA  PMHx: HTN PSHx: none FMHx: mother - died of PE at 60, hx HTN and DM; father - MI in his 40's and has since had bypass surgery; MGM - breast cancer; 2 sinlings that are both healthy SHx: 1ppd smoker for the last 20 years, occasional EtOH on the weekends, no illicit drug use  ROS: negative except as otherwise stated in HPI  Objective: VS: 98F    85 BPM    104 br/min     150/92 PE:  General: NAD, sitting comfortably on exam bed Cardiac: RRR, normal S1 and S2, no murmurs/rubs/gallops Resp: CTAB in all posterior lung fields Abd: non-tender to palpation in all four quadrants or in the epigastric region MSK: no chest wall tenderness  Assessment: 46-yearold make hx HTN presenting acute CP now resolved  DDx: 1. MI 2. HF 3. arrhythmia 4. anxiety 5. costochondritis  Plan: obtain EKG and cardiac enzymes and BMP. Possibly evaluate further with echo or stress test pending initial work-up.  
