Subjective: HPI:  Ms. Gerry care is a 55 yo female who presents to the office with recent episode of chest pain 3 days ago. States she was carrying 2 5 gallon jugs of water in the grocery store parking lot when she began with 7/10 intense chest pain that lasted 5-10 mins before resolving after she rested in her car. States she could not catch her breath and felt faint and lightheaded during the episode. She has had similar milder episodes of "twinges" in her chest 2-3 times ove rthe past 4 months, rates those a 2/10 in pain severity. Also states has had 1 yr of epigastric pain, 1-2 imes a week that occurs after a large meal, these last 3-5 mins at a time. Denies having any sx in the office, no chest pain, SOB, palpitations, N/V, headache, dizziness right now. Primary concern is she is wondering if she is having a heart attack.  PMH: HTN Surg hx : N/A meds: Lisinopril 10mg daily, chlorthalidone 25mgh daily Imm: UTD, covid x3, flu up to date allergies:None social: smokes 1 pack of cigarettes a day for 25 yrs, drinks 2-3 glasses wine on weekends, no rec drug use FH:  dad with hx CABG, CAD, died of heart attack at 40 yrs old mother died of PE, also had HTN, DMT2 Grandmother: died of breast ca  Objective:  Vitals: T 98 HR 85 RR 14 BP 150/92 Physical:  General, awake, alert, in NAD middle aged female Neck: no JVD Heart; RRR, no murmurs, rubs gallops. No chest wall tenderness on palpation Lungs: CTAB, no wheezes, rales rhonchi Abdomen: no tenderness to palpation any 4 quadrants, soft, nondistended, normoactive bowel sounds   Labs: none   Imaging: none   Assessment: Ms Smith is a 33 yo female with recent episode of chest pain 3 days ago now resolved, occurred while she was exerting herself carrying heavy jugs. Notable for 2-3 eps of twinges past 4 months. Exam without abnormality, vitals are stable, this makes differential diagnosis of acute STEMI unlikely. She has no active sx, no diaphoresis. Unstable angina also unlikely, does not have pain at rest, only on exertion. primary diagnosis is stable angina due to episodic nature of these episodes on exertion, her fam hx of early age heart attack in father, and her smoking history increasing risk for CAD. Other diagnosis includes NSTEMI, less likely costochomndritis due to no pain on palpation of chest wall. Pulmonary embolism unlikely due to no tachycardia, tachypnea, SOB, active chest pain.   Plan:  1) Chest pain episodes on exertion -- Obtain EKG to evaluate for arrythmias, acute conduction abnormalities in heart -- Obtain serum troponin to evaluate for NSTEMI, see if she needs to go to hospital for percutaneous coronary intervention with possible stent -- CXR for episodes of chest pain with SOB that resolve -- If above results negative, set up pt with cardiology outpatient appointment due to increased risk of heart disease in fam and her smoking hx       
