Mrs. Gerry Cage is a 55yr old female w/PMH of hypertension presenting to the clinic after having an episode of chest pain. 3 days ago she was walking in the grocery store when she suddenly felt a what she described as a deep ache with heaviness in the middle of her chest. She rates the pain 7/10. She walked to the car, sat there for 5-10mins and the pain subsequently resolved. She also endorse some shortness of breath with the episode. She endorses two other similar episodes in the past 2 months in which the onset of her pain was while she was engaging in physical activity. She says these episodes were much more minor rating the pain during those a 2/10. She denies coughing, increased pain with inspiration, dizziness, or radiation of her pain during these episodes.  Mrs. Gerry Cage also endorse pressure like pain in her midsternal/epigastric area happening occasionally after she eats her meals. She says these episodes last 3-5minutes and then resolve. She denies cough and acid reflux. She would like to know the management of her pain.  Allergies  - N/A  Medications -lisnopril 10mg once daily - chlorothalidone 25mg once daily   PMH Hypertension  FMH father - CAD (passed at 40) Mother - DMII, HTN (passed at 60  Social ETOH: 2-3 glasses of wine/week Tobacco: 25 pack years Substance Use: None   Vitals  T: 98 HR: 85 RR: 14 BP: 150/92  Physical Exam General: Well appearing lady sitting comfortably on exam chair no acute distress Cardio: normal rate, regular rhythm, no rubs, no murmurs, no gallops, 2+ pulses in UE Pulm: Clear to ausculation bilaterally, no rhonchi, no wheezes, no stridor,  Abdomen: soft, nontender, normal bowel sounds   Assessment  Gerry Cage is a 55 yr old female w/PMH of HTN, presenting to clinic after a 10minute episode of exertional chest pain while grocery shopping with 2 other similar episodes in the past 4 months. Most likely angina given history of HTN, exertional nature of chest pain, and resolution with rest. Other differentials including, Pulmonary embolism but no pain with inspriation or coughing,   Plan -troponin -EKG -CBC -BMP
