Subjective HPI: Mr. Gerry Cage is a male with a past medical history of hypertension who presents to clinic with chest pain. For the past four months, he has experienced 2-3 episodes of sharp, brief chest pain upon exertion that spontaneously resolve with rest. His last chest pain was three days ago where he felt a deep, heavy ache of 7/10 intensity while carrying heavy grocery bags. This episode was different and worse than the previous episodes as it lasted for 5-10 minutes and was associated with light-headedness and shortness of breath. Additionally, he occasionally experiences chest pressure 2-3 days a week after eating a big meal that is different from the chest pain. Nothing makes it better or worse. He is concerned that he had a heart attack or will have one.  Medications: chlorthalidone, lisinopril Allergies: none PMHx/PSHx: none FHx: father (heart attack in 40s, CABG, passed away at age 72 due to cardiac complications), mother (HTN, diabetes, passed away at age 60 due to pulmonary embolism), no family history of stroke/CAD/HLD SHx: drinks 2-3 glasses of wine per week, smokes 1ppd of cigarettes for 20+ years, denies illicit drug uses, eats 2 meals a day from the cafeteria at his work which are "not healthy," walks the dog 0.5 miles twice a day but doesn't consider that his exercise  Objective Vitals: BP 150/92  HR 85  RR 14  T 98F General: not in acute distress, sitting on bed HEENT: atraumatic, PERRLA Cardiovascular: RRR, no murmurs Pulmonary: CTAB  Imagine: none Labs: none  Assessment/Plan: Mr. Gerry Cage is a male with a past medical history of hypertension who presents to clinic with chest pain upon exertion associated with light-headedness and shortness of breath that is relieved upon rest. He has a strong family history of heart disease, diabetes, and HTN and poor diet and exercise regimen. This is most likely exertional angina, possible due to an underlying metabolic syndrome. - Schedule stress test - Order CBC, BNP, lipid panel, and Hgb A1c - Provide guidance on appropriate diet and exercise regimen
