S: Gerry Cage is a 55 year old female with a history of hypertension who presents with an episode of chest pain that occurred 3 days ago while she was carrying heavy groceries to her car. The pain felt like heavy pressure in the middle of her chest and was achy in quality, but stopped once she sat down. She has not had any sweating, nausea, or left arm pain. She feels okay now, but states that she has not been exerting herself since. She denies any lower extremity swelling. She has had 2-3 other incidences of "twinges" before while doing exertional activities such as running after her cat or going up stairs. She denies any history of anxiety. She is a current smoker and has a family history of a father who had an MI at 40 and required bypass surgery and a mother with HTN and pulmonary aneurysm who died at 60. She is on chlorthalidone and lisinopril and states she is taking her medication.  O:  -She has an elevated BP at this visit.  -General appearance: She appears .  -Cardiac: Her heart has a regular rate and rhythm with no murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  -Lungs: Her lungs are CTAB.  A: Ms. Cage is a 55 year old female smoker who has a history of hypertension and a family history of a father who had CAD and bypass before the age of 45 who presents with an episode of substernal chest pain following exertion with no sweating, nausea, or left arm pain and relieved by rest. Exam is significant for elevated BP. The most likely diagnosis is stable angina. An MI is less likely given her relief of symptoms with rest and a panic attack is less likely given her absence of a history of anxiety.  P: -She should present to the ED for a cardiac workup including troponins, CXR, EKG, and potentially a cardiac cath. -If she is found to have only angina and not a more severe form of ACS, nitroglycerin could be used to relieve her chest pain symptoms.  -Given her elevated BP and history of HTN, a repeat BP should be obtained. If it remains elevated, this indicated that her HTN is poorly controlled and a third medication such as a calcium channel blocker can be added.  -Smoking cessation was discussed with the patient. 
